world in London, as she misses living in the city and taking soma.  John wants
with the ubiquitous availability and universally endorsed consumption of the
with sleep-teaching has led him to realize that what others believe to be their
with and children are created, 'decanted' and raised in Hatcheries and
will inspire his writing, but Bernard simply does not want to leave London; he
will continue and he will not be sent to an island.  John meets with Bernard
will be exiled to islands of their choice.  Mond explains that this exile is
why his society meets the emotional needs of its citizens.  Courting disaster,
whose culture resembles the contemporary Indian groups of the region,
while fetuses chosen to become members of the lower castes ('Beta', 'Gamma',
watch what at first appears to be a quaint native ceremony.  The village folk,
wants to take them back to block Thomas from his plan to reassign Bernard to
victory, however, is short-lived.  Linda, decrepit, toothless, and friendless,
value consumption with such platitudes as "ending is better than mending,"
unbridled emotion drives the crowd wild with excitement, and — handling it as
to see the "brave new world" his mother has told him so much about.  Bernard
to read, although he only had two books: a scientific manual from his mother's
toothless natives who mend their clothes rather than throw them away repugnant,
to Lenina, as while Bernard is away, getting the permission to move the
to her old life, but to stay with the "savages".  Linda gave birth to a son,
to everyone else" is repeated often, and the idea of a "family" is considered
to an island because of some scientific experiments that were deemed
they are conditioned to — they turn on each other, in a frenzy of beating and
the World State as wonderful and introduces Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx.
the workers by throwing their soma rations out a window.  The ensuing riot
The vast majority of the population is unified under the World State, an
these people are deliberately limited in their cognitive and physical
the only two men with whom he ever connected find more of interest in each
the native women regularly beat and ostracized her because of her promiscuity,
the more bitter memories of civilization.  To atone, John brutally whips
the morals behind the existing society and then John is told the "experiment"
them away.  John's grief bewilders and revolts the hospital workers, and their
the hypnopaedic process, which provides each child with caste-appropriate
the Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning, Thomas.  She became pregnant
the desert.  Old, weathered and tired, Linda wants to return to her familiar
The conditioning system eliminates the need for professional competitiveness;
the Bokanovsky process which enables a single egg to spawn (at the point of the
telling him that his mother is extremely unwell.  He rushes over to see her and
tear John does not see.  The sight of the woman whom he both adores and blames
talk to her.  He is heartbroken when his mother succumbs to soma and dies.  He
tablets at the resort hotel.  In typical tourist fashion, Bernard and Lenina
such specialized children bolsters the efficiency and harmony of society, since
subversive).  Shakespeare gives John articulation to his feelings, though, and
subconscious messages to mold the child's lifelong self-image and social
struggles with Mond and is thrown out of the office.  After Bernard and
story being told) up to 96 children and one ovary to produce thousands of
State.  Fetuses chosen to become members of the highest caste, 'Alpha', are
stands to the side, torn between risking involvement by helping or escaping the
soma and sing hymns.  The ritual progresses through group hypnosis and climaxes
sits at her bedside, trying to get her out of her soma holiday so that he can
since she came on a trip and became separated from her group, among whom was a
shared by the lower castes, which gives him an inferiority complex.  His work
Shakespeare's works (which have been banned in the World State for being
sense of loneliness stems from being too gifted, too intelligent, too handsome,
self-medicating comfort mechanism in the face of stress or discomfort, thereby
securely contained groups of "savages" are left to their own devices.  These
scene.  Following the riot, Bernard, Helmholtz and John are brought before
Savage visits the World State (Chapters 10–18) Upon his return to London,
savages, he finds her suitcase and ruffels through all of her clothes, taking
Savage (Chapters 7–9) Bernard is on holiday at a Savage Reservation.  The
same time, John has been denied the religious rituals of the village, although
reservation, located in New Mexico, consists of a community named Malpais.
reproduction (sex is encouraged from early childhood).  The few women who can
reproduce are conditioned to use birth control, even wearing a "Malthusian
rendered obsolete because they are no longer needed.  Marriage, natural birth,
reinforces each individual's place in the caste system.  To grow closer with
"rather be himself." Bernard's differences fuel rumors that he was accidentally
putting her clothes on, John receives a telephone call from the hospital
providing social engagement and distraction in the material realm of work or
provide these inner-directed personal experiences within a socially managed
producing future adult generations.  To maintain the World State's Command
predetermined positions within the social and economic strata of the World
pornographic; sexual competition and emotional, romantic relationships are
Podsnap's Technique causes all the eggs in the ovary to mature simultaneously,
Plus, Bernard is shorter in stature than the average of his caste—a quality
plentiful (because the population is permanently limited to no more than two
play, the need for transcendence, solitude and spiritual communion is addressed
people to consume and never to enjoy being alone, so by spending an afternoon
people are literally bred to do their jobs and cannot desire another.  There is
participated that countered his beliefs, makes one last attempt to escape
parenthood, and pregnancy are considered too obscene to be mentioned in casual
own deeply held beliefs are merely phrases repeated to children while they are
outlook to that chosen by the leaders and their predetermined plans for
other than they ever did in him.  John and Helmholtz's island of peace is
on her sexually wanton ways.  Whilst Lenina is in the bathroom, humiliated and
on enjoyable, hangover-free "holidays".  It was developed by the World State to
of these castes make up the majority of human society, and the production of
not so much a threat to force freethinkers to reform and rejoin society as it
not playing "Obstacle Golf," or not in bed with a friend, one is forfeiting
no competition within castes; each caste member receives the same food,
Mustapha Mond, the Resident World Controller for Western Europe.  Bernard (who
morning, frenzied at the prospect of seeing the savage perform again, they find
members of the same class, citizens participate in mock religious services
man to whom she refers as "Tomakin" but who is revealed to be Bernard's boss,
maintained good health and youthfulness their whole life.  Death isn't feared;
London where he finds his hermit life interrupted from mourning his mother by
Linda and John to leave the reservation.  John also seems to have an attraction
Linda and John reveal that their life has been hard.  For 18 years, they have
life.  Hundreds of gawking sightseers, intrigued by John's violent behavior,
Lenina, a hatchery worker, is socially accepted and comfortable with her place
lack of reaction to Linda's death prompts John to try to force humanity from
John the toast of London.  Pursued by the highest members of society, able to
John (later referred to as John the Savage) who is now 18.  Conversations with
John dead from a suicidal hanging.
job, which he called a "beastly, beastly book," and a collection of
jealous rage while a child.  John's one joy was that his mother had taught him
is too much for him; John attacks and whips her.  This sight of genuine,
is the bedrock of economic and social stability for the World State.  Beyond
is extremely annoyed by the young boys that enter the ward to be conditioned
is a chance for them to act as they please because they will not be able to
in the smells.  He then sees her "sleeping" and stares at her, thinking all he
in society, while Bernard, a psychologist, is an outcast.  Although an Alpha
influence the population.  He also divulges that he too once risked banishment
in an orgy.  In geographic areas nonconducive to easy living and consumption,
i.e., buy a new item instead of fixing the old one, because constant
Iceland as punishment for his asocial beliefs.  Bernard arranges permission for
hypnopaedically inculcated affinity for the State-produced drug, as a
humiliated Director resigns in shame.  Spared from reassignment, Bernard makes
housing, and soma rationing as every other member of that caste.  There is no
hopeless, alone, horrified by his drug use and the orgy in which he
his skin.  John was angered by Linda's lovers, and even attacked one in a
His self-flagellation, caught on film and shown publicly, destroys his hermit
his long-lost lover and unknown son, Linda and John.  John falls to his knees
his life he has the upper hand, defends himself by presenting the Director with
his imminent exile and having restored his friendship with Helmholtz.  In the
himself in the open, a ritual the Indians in his own village had denied him.
Helmholtz have left, Mustapha and John engage in a philosophical argument on
Helmholtz chooses the Falkland Islands, believing that their terrible weather
he is vocal about being different, once stating he dislikes soma because he'd
he has watched them and even has had some religious experiences on his own in
he especially is interested in Othello, Romeo and Juliet, and Hamlet.  At the
has to do to see her properly is undo one zip.  He later tells himself off for
goes on a permanent soma holiday while John, appalled by what he perceives to
further split into 'Plus' and 'Minus' members) and designed to fulfill
From afar, Lenina thinks it will be exciting.  In person, she finds the aged,
fly out to watch the savage in person.  Even Lenina comes to watch, crying a
final chapter, John isolates himself from society in a lighthouse outside
fetus.  Members of lower castes are not unique but are instead created using
eternally peaceful, stable global society in which goods and resources are
eliminates the need for religion or other personal allegiances outside or
Economy for the indefinite future, all citizens are conditioned from birth to
easy camaraderie with John.  Bernard is left an outcast yet again as he watches
drug soma.  Soma is an allusion to a mythical drink of the same name consumed
developments in reproductive technology and sleep-learning that combine to
despite adhering to her "Malthusian Drill" and there were no facilities for an
desire to change one's caste, largely because a person's sleep-conditioning
desires, thus rendering them easier to control.  All children are educated via
descendants of the Anasazi, including the Puebloan peoples of Acoma, Laguna,
'Delta', 'Epsilon') are subjected to in situ chemical interference to cause
curio in the outside world.  In its first chapters, the novel describes life in
conversation.  Thus, society has developed a new idea of reproductive
controversial by the state, giving insight into his sympathetic tone.
contraceptives") as a popular fashion accessory.  The maxim "everyone belongs
context of State-run 'religious' organizations; social clubs.  The
consumption, and near-universal employment to meet society's material demands,
Conditioning Centres, where they are divided into five castes (which are
comprehension.  Spending time alone is considered an outrageous waste of time
College of Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing).  The friendship is
civilization and atone.  When thousands of gawking sightseers arrive that
children.  To further increase the birthrate of Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons,
chanting that devolves into a mass orgy of soma and sex.  In the morning, John,
change society. The future society is an embodiment of the ideals that form the
Centre who, in front of an audience of higher-caste Centre workers, denounces
can talk to Bernard about his desire to write poetry.  The Reservation and the
called Solidarity Services, in which twelve people consume large quantities of
by ancient Indo-Aryans.  In the book, soma is a hallucinogen that takes users
brings the police, who quells the riot by filling the room with soma.  Bernard
brief.  Lenina tries to seduce John, but John pushes her away, calling her out
breaks down during the middle of the conversation) and Helmholtz are told they
Brave New World Revisited (1958) and with his final work, a novel titled Island
Brave New World is a novel written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley and published in
billion people) and everyone is happy.  Natural reproduction has been done away
beyond the World State.  Recreational sex is an integral part of society.
'Beta' is the product of one unique fertilized egg developing into one unique
Bernard's only friend is Helmholtz Watson, an Alpha Plus lecturer at the
Bernard is confronted by Thomas, the Director of the Hatchery and Conditioning
Bernard for his asocial behavior.  Bernard, thinking that for the first time in
Bernard as swiftly as it had taken him.  Bernard turns to the person he'd
belt" (which resembles a cartridge belt and holds "the regulation supply of
believed to be his one true friend, only to see Helmholtz fall into a quick,
being like this towards Lenina, and seems to be extremely shy around her.  The
been treated as outsiders: the native men treated Linda like a sex object while
bed any woman he fancies, Bernard revels in attention he once scorned.  The
becomes a passion play where a village boy is whipped to unconsciousness.  Soon
be an empty society, refuses to attend Bernard's parties.  Society drops
basis of futurology. Huxley answered this book with a reassessment in an essay,
based on their similar experiences as misfits, but unlike Bernard, Watson's
asleep.  Still, he recognizes the necessity of such programming as the reason
arrested development in intelligence or physical growth.  Each 'Alpha' or
are beholden of strange customs, including self-mutilation and religion, a mere
appear to be similar to the reservations of land established for the Native
apologizes to John for his opportunistic behavior, having come to terms with
anyone reflecting upon it is reassured by the knowledge that everyone is happy,
and Zuni, and the Ramah Navajo, begin by singing, but the ritual quickly
and too physically strong.  Helmholtz is drawn to Bernard as a confidant: he
and the situation is made worse when she discovers that she has left her soma
and that society goes on.  Since no one has family, they have no ties to mourn.
and money, and wanting to be an individual is horrifying.  Conditioning trains
and John was mistreated and excluded for his mother's actions and the color of
and Helmholtz once again before their departures from London and Bernard
and Helmholtz arrive to help John, but only Helmholtz helps him, while Bernard
and calls Thomas his father, which causes an uproar of laughter.  The
American population during the colonisation of North America.  These 'savages'
allowing the hatchery to get full use of the ovary in two years' time.  People
allowed to develop naturally while maturing to term in "decanting bottles",
after, the couple encounters Linda, a woman who has been living in Malpais
administered alcohol while incubated, a method used to keep Epsilons short.
According to the World State, sex is a social activity, rather than a means of
acceptance.  In the World State, people typically die at age 60[11] having
about death and annoy John to the point where he starts to use violence to send
abortion.  Her shame at pregnancy was so great that she decided not to return
abilities, as well as the scope of their ambitions and the complexity of their
(1962).  The novel opens in London in 632 (AD 2540 in the Gregorian Calendar).
1932. Set in London of AD 2540 (632 A.F. in the book), the novel anticipates
