Whilst Lenina is in the bathroom, humiliated and putting her clothes on, John receives a telephone call from the hospital telling him that his mother is extremely unwell.
While visiting the New Mexico Savage Reservation, she became pregnant with the Director’s son.
When threatened, Bernard can be petty and cruel.
When thousands of gawking sightseers arrive that morning, frenzied at the prospect of seeing the savage perform again, they find John dead from a suicidal hanging.
When she sees other people for the first time, she is understandably overcome with excitement, and utters, among other praise, the famous line above.
When she returned she was treated to a series of soma baths and a pleasant death.
When his work was discovered, he was given the choice of going into exile or training to become a World Controller.
Wells, including A Modern Utopia (1905) and Men Like Gods (1923).[5] Wells' hopeful vision of the future's possibilities gave Huxley the idea to begin writing a parody of the novel, which became Brave New World.
Very little is revealed of the Nine Years' War, but it can be inferred that the conflict broke out in Europe, affected most of the planet, and caused massive physical damage.
Upon his return to London, Bernard is confronted by Thomas, the Director of the Hatchery and Conditioning Centre who, in front of an audience of higher-caste Centre workers, denounces Bernard for his asocial behavior.
Unlike the most popular optimist utopian novels of the time, Huxley sought to provide a frightening vision of the future.
Unlike his famous namesake, Bernard’s discontent stems from his frustrated desire to fit into his own society, rather than from a systematic or philosophical criticism of it.
Ultimately, her values are those of a conventional World State citizen: her primary means of relating to other people is through sex, and she is unable to share Bernard’s disaffection or to comprehend John’s alternate system of values.
Translations of the title often allude to similar expressions used in domestic works of literature in an attempt to capture the same irony: the French edition of the work is entitled Le Meilleur des mondes ("The Best of All Worlds"), an allusion to an expression used by the philosopher Gottfried Leibniz[4] and satirized in Candide, Ou l'Optimisme by Voltaire (1759).
Toward the end of the novel, a conversation between John and Western Europe's World Controller, Mustapha Mond, reveals further details of the World State's political geography.
To maintain the World State's Command Economy for the indefinite future, all citizens are conditioned from birth to value consumption with such platitudes as "ending is better than mending," i.e., buy a new item instead of fixing the old one, because constant consumption, and near-universal employment to meet society's material demands, is the bedrock of economic and social stability for the World State.
To grow closer with members of the same class, citizens participate in mock religious services called Solidarity Services, in which twelve people consume large quantities of soma and sing hymns.
To further increase the birthrate of Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons, Podsnap's Technique causes all the eggs in the ovary to mature simultaneously, allowing the hatchery to get full use of the ovary in two years' time.
To deal with the two catastrophes of the Nine Years' War and the Great Economic Collapse, the new world leaders tried to forcibly impose their new ideologies on Earth's populations.
To atone, John brutally whips himself in the open, a ritual the Indians in his own village had denied him.
Thus, society has developed a new idea of reproductive comprehension.
Thus seeing America firsthand, and from reading the ideas and plans of one of its foremost citizens, Huxley was spurred to write Brave New World with America in mind.
This sight of genuine, unbridled emotion drives the crowd wild with excitement, and — handling it as they are conditioned to — they turn on each other, in a frenzy of beating and chanting that devolves into a mass orgy of soma and sex.
This met with widespread resistance, including large-scale riots at Golders Green and a massacre at the British Museum.
This line itself is ironic; Miranda was raised for most of her life on an isolated island, and the only people she ever knew were her father and his servants, an enslaved savage and spirits, namely Ariel.
This campaign included the closing of museums, the suppression of almost all literature published before 150 AF (2058 AD), and the destruction of the few historical world monuments that had survived the Nine Years' War.
They are then grown to 'birth' in bottles, the bottles being treated in a manner similar to a production line.
These appear to be similar to the reservations of land established for the Native American population during the colonisation of North America.
These 'savages' are beholden of strange customs, including self-mutilation and religion, a mere curio in the outside world.
There was a fear of Americanization in Europe.
There is no desire to change one's caste, largely because a person's sleep-conditioning reinforces each individual's place in the caste system.
There is no competition within castes; each caste member receives the same food, housing, and soma rationing as every other member of that caste.
The works of H. G. Wells and George Bernard Shaw on the promises of socialism and a World State were then viewed as the ideas of naive optimists.
The village folk, whose culture resembles the contemporary Indian groups of the region, descendants of the Anasazi, including the Puebloan peoples of Acoma, Laguna, and Zuni, and the Ramah Navajo, begin by singing, but the ritual quickly becomes a passion play where a village boy is whipped to unconsciousness.
The victory, however, is short-lived.
The vast majority of the population is unified under the World State, an eternally peaceful, stable global society in which goods and resources are plentiful (because the population is permanently limited to no more than two billion people) and everyone is happy.
The two billion citizens of the World State constitute a eusocial consumer society whose individuals are produced in hatcheries by application of "Bokanovsky's"[1] and other techniques to the hatchery line to produce the five classes or castes named after letters of the Greek alphabet: alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon, respectively.
The sight of the woman whom he both adores and blames is too much for him; John attacks and whips her.
The ritual progresses through group hypnosis and climaxes in an orgy.
The reservation, located in New Mexico, consists of a community named Malpais.
The political, cultural, economic and sociological upheavals of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the First World War (1914–1918) were resonating throughout the world as a whole and the individual lives of most people.
The novel opens in London in 632 (AD 2540 in the Gregorian Calendar).
The name "Mond" is similar to the French word "monde", which means “world”, and Mond is indeed the most powerful character in the world of this novel.
The motto of the World State is Community, Identity, Stability.
The maxim "everyone belongs to everyone else" is repeated often, and the idea of a "family" is considered pornographic; sexual competition and emotional, romantic relationships are rendered obsolete because they are no longer needed.
The introduction to the most recent print[vague] of Brave New World states that Huxley was inspired to write the classic novel by this Billingham visit.
The hypnopaedically inculcated affinity for the State-produced drug, as a self-medicating comfort mechanism in the face of stress or discomfort, thereby eliminates the need for religion or other personal allegiances outside or beyond the World State.
The humiliated Director resigns in shame.
The future society is an embodiment of the ideals that form the basis of futurology.
The friendship is based on their similar experiences as misfits, but unlike Bernard, Watson's sense of loneliness stems from being too gifted, too intelligent, too handsome, and too physically strong.
The following is a list of the major characters involved in the novel:
The few women who can reproduce are conditioned to use birth control, even wearing a "Malthusian belt" (which resembles a cartridge belt and holds "the regulation supply of contraceptives") as a popular fashion accessory.
The ensuing riot brings the police, who quells the riot by filling the room with soma.
The consummate outsider, he has spent his life alienated from his village on the New Mexico Savage Reservation, and he finds himself similarly unable to fit in to World State society.
The conditioning system eliminates the need for professional competitiveness; people are literally bred to do their jobs and cannot desire another.
The citizens of the World State use a calendar which takes the year 1908 AD ("0 AF" - "Anno Ford") as its starting point, as this was the first year in which the Model T automobile was produced by the Ford Motor Company.
The World State is the primary setting of Aldous Huxley's 1932 dystopian novel Brave New World.
The Warden – The Warden is the talkative chief administrator for the New Mexico Savage Reservation.
The Industrial Revolution had transformed the world.
The Director – The Director administrates the Central London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre.
The Arch-Community-Songster – The Arch-Community-Songster is the secular, shallow equivalent of an archbishop in the World State society.
The "feelies" are his response to the "talkie" motion pictures, and the sex-hormone chewing gum is a parody of the ubiquitous chewing gum, which was something of a symbol of America at that time.
Subsequently, these areas are left as reservations, and local life continues—albeit under constant surveillance by the World State.
Still, he recognizes the necessity of such programming as the reason why his society meets the emotional needs of its citizens.
Spending time alone is considered an outrageous waste of time and money, and wanting to be an individual is horrifying.
Specifically, she warns Lenina that she should have more men in her life because it looks bad to concentrate on one man for too long.
Spared from reassignment, Bernard makes John the toast of London.
Soon after, the couple encounters Linda, a woman who has been living in Malpais since she came on a trip and became separated from her group, among whom was a man to whom she refers as "Tomakin" but who is revealed to be Bernard's boss, the Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning, Thomas.
Soma is an allusion to a mythical drink of the same name consumed by ancient Indo-Aryans.
Society is controlled by Alphas and their subordinates, Betas.
Society drops Bernard as swiftly as it had taken him.
Small islands across the planet, such as the Falkland Islands, Iceland, and the Marquesas Islands, are reserved for citizens of the World State who do not wish to live in, or do not fit into the normal society.
Since no one has family, they have no ties to mourn.
She is desperate to return to the World State and to soma.
She is an object of desire for a number of major and minor characters, including Bernard Marx and John.
She became pregnant despite adhering to her "Malthusian Drill" and there were no facilities for an abortion.
Shakespeare gives John articulation to his feelings, though, and he especially is interested in Othello, Romeo and Juliet, and Hamlet.
Set in London of AD 2540 (632 A.F. in the book), the novel anticipates developments in reproductive technology and sleep-learning that combine to change society.
Recreational sex is an integral part of society.
Realising that they could not force people to adopt the new lifestyle, the World Controllers instead united the planet into the One World State and began a peaceful campaign of change.
Pursued by the highest members of society, able to bed any woman he fancies, Bernard revels in attention he once scorned.
Prospective World Controllers are recruited from social outcasts who display unconventional thoughts.
People of these castes make up the majority of human society, and the production of such specialized children bolsters the efficiency and harmony of society, since these people are deliberately limited in their cognitive and physical abilities, as well as the scope of their ambitions and the complexity of their desires, thus rendering them easier to control.
Old, weathered and tired, Linda wants to return to her familiar world in London, as she misses living in the city and taking soma.
Not only was Huxley outraged by the culture of youth, commercial cheeriness, sexual promiscuity and the inward-looking nature of many Americans,[8] he had also found a book by Henry Ford on the boat to America.
Natural reproduction has been done away with and children are created, 'decanted' and raised in Hatcheries and Conditioning Centres, where they are divided into five castes (which are further split into 'Plus' and 'Minus' members) and designed to fulfill predetermined positions within the social and economic strata of the World State.
Mustapha Mond – The Resident World Controller of Western Europe, one of only ten World Controllers.
Much of the discourse on man's future before 1914 was based on the thesis that humanity would solve all economic and social issues.
Much more than Victorian righteousness, or even Victorian self-righteousness, that optimism has driven people into pessimism.
Mond explains that this exile is not so much a threat to force freethinkers to reform and rejoin society as it is a chance for them to act as they please because they will not be able to influence the population.
Mond explains that certain areas which have very few resources or languish in unpleasant climates are not "civilised" by the government, as it would be uneconomical.
Men like Ford or Mond seemed to many to have solved the social riddle and made capitalism the common good.
Members of lower castes are not unique but are instead created using the Bokanovsky process which enables a single egg to spawn (at the point of the story being told) up to 96 children and one ovary to produce thousands of children.
Mass production had made cars, telephones, and radios relatively cheap and widely available throughout the developed world.
Marriage, natural birth, parenthood, and pregnancy are considered too obscene to be mentioned in casual conversation.
Linda, decrepit, toothless, and friendless, goes on a permanent soma holiday while John, appalled by what he perceives to be an empty society, refuses to attend Bernard's parties.
Linda – John’s mother, and a Beta.
Linda gave birth to a son, John (later referred to as John the Savage) who is now 18.
Linda could not get an abortion on the Reservation, and she was too ashamed to return to the World State with a baby.
Lenina, a hatchery worker, is socially accepted and comfortable with her place in society, while Bernard, a psychologist, is an outcast.
Lenina tries to seduce John, but John pushes her away, calling her out on her sexually wanton ways.
Lenina Crowne – A vaccination worker at the Central London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre.
John's one joy was that his mother had taught him to read, although he only had two books: a scientific manual from his mother's job, which he called a "beastly, beastly book," and a collection of Shakespeare's works (which have been banned in the World State for being subversive).
John's grief bewilders and revolts the hospital workers, and their lack of reaction to Linda's death prompts John to try to force humanity from the workers by throwing their soma rations out a window.
John – The son of the Director and Linda, John is the only major character to have grown up outside of the World State.
John was angered by Linda's lovers, and even attacked one in a jealous rage while a child.
John wants to see the "brave new world" his mother has told him so much about.
John meets with Bernard and Helmholtz once again before their departures from London and Bernard apologizes to John for his opportunistic behavior, having come to terms with his imminent exile and having restored his friendship with Helmholtz.
John falls to his knees and calls Thomas his father, which causes an uproar of laughter.
John and Helmholtz's island of peace is brief.
John also seems to have an attraction to Lenina, as while Bernard is away, getting the permission to move the savages, he finds her suitcase and ruffels through all of her clothes, taking in the smells.
It was developed by the World State to provide these inner-directed personal experiences within a socially managed context of State-run 'religious' organizations; social clubs.
It was contemptuous, not only of the old Capitalism, but of the old Socialism.
It is repeatedly stated that chemical and biological weapons were heavily used during the war, particularly in mass air-raids against cities, similar to the portrayal of World War III.
In typical tourist fashion, Bernard and Lenina watch what at first appears to be a quaint native ceremony.
In the novel, the World State is a unified government which administers the entire planet, with a few isolated exceptions.
In the morning, John, hopeless, alone, horrified by his drug use and the orgy in which he participated that countered his beliefs, makes one last attempt to escape civilization and atone.
In the final chapter, John isolates himself from society in a lighthouse outside London where he finds his hermit life interrupted from mourning his mother by the more bitter memories of civilization.
In the decade following the war the discourse shifted to an examination of the causes of the catastrophe.
In the book, soma is a hallucinogen that takes users on enjoyable, hangover-free "holidays".
In the World State, people typically die at age 60[11] having maintained good health and youthfulness their whole life.
In person, she finds the aged, toothless natives who mend their clothes rather than throw them away repugnant, and the situation is made worse when she discovers that she has left her soma tablets at the resort hotel.
In its first chapters, the novel describes life in the World State as wonderful and introduces Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx.
In geographic areas nonconducive to easy living and consumption, securely contained groups of "savages" are left to their own devices.
In an article in the 4 May 1935 issue of the Illustrated London News, G. K. Chesterton explained that Huxley was revolting against the "Age of Utopias".
In 1999, the Modern Library ranked Brave New World fifth on its list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.
Huxley wrote Brave New World in 1931 while he was living in Italy (he moved to the neighbourhood of Eagle Rock in Los Angeles in 1937).
Huxley visited the newly opened and technologically advanced Brunner and Mond plant, part of Imperial Chemical Industries, or ICI, Billingham, United Kingdom, and gives a fine and detailed account of the processes he saw.
Huxley used the setting and characters from his science fiction novel to express widely held opinions, particularly the fear of losing individual identity in the fast-paced world of the future.
Huxley said that Brave New World was inspired by the utopian novels of H.G.
Huxley referred to Brave New World as a "negative utopia" (see dystopia), somewhat influenced by Wells' own The Sleeper Awakes (dealing with subjects like corporate tyranny and behavioral conditioning) and the works of D. H. Lawrence.
Huxley employs the same irony when the "savage" John refers to what he sees as a "brave new world."
Huxley answered this book with a reassessment in an essay, Brave New World Revisited (1958) and with his final work, a novel titled Island (1962).
Hundreds of gawking sightseers, intrigued by John's violent behavior, fly out to watch the savage in person.
However, what she is actually observing is not men acting in a refined or civilized manner, but rather drunken sailors staggering off the wreckage of their ship.
His work with sleep-teaching has led him to realize that what others believe to be their own deeply held beliefs are merely phrases repeated to children while they are asleep.
His success with Lenina, and his casual attitude about it, infuriate the jealous Bernard.
His self-flagellation, caught on film and shown publicly, destroys his hermit life.
His insecurity about his size and status makes him discontented with the World State.
His entire worldview is based on his knowledge of Shakespeare’s plays, which he can quote with great facility.
Her shame at pregnancy was so great that she decided not to return to her old life, but to stay with the "savages".
Her behavior is sometimes intriguingly unorthodox, which makes her attractive to the reader.
Her World State–conditioned promiscuity makes her a social outcast.
Henry Foster – One of Lenina’s many lovers, he is a perfectly conventional Alpha male, casually discussing Lenina’s body with his coworkers.
Helmholtz is drawn to Bernard as a confidant: he can talk to Bernard about his desire to write poetry.
Helmholtz chooses the Falkland Islands, believing that their terrible weather will inspire his writing, but Bernard simply does not want to leave London; he struggles with Mond and is thrown out of the office.
Helmholtz Watson – An Alpha lecturer at the College of Emotional Engineering, Helmholtz is a prime example of his caste, but feels that his work is empty and meaningless and would like to use his writing abilities for something more meaningful.
He was once an ambitious, young physicist performing illicit research.
He was a contributor to Vanity Fair and Vogue magazines, had published a collection of his poetry (The Burning Wheel, 1916) and four successful satirical novels: Crome Yellow (1921), Antic Hay (1923), Those Barren Leaves (1925) and Point Counter Point (1928).
He then sees her "sleeping" and stares at her, thinking all he has to do to see her properly is undo one zip.
He rushes over to see her and sits at her bedside, trying to get her out of her soma holiday so that he can talk to her.
He later tells himself off for being like this towards Lenina, and seems to be extremely shy around her.
He is heartbroken when his mother succumbs to soma and dies.
He is extremely annoyed by the young boys that enter the ward to be conditioned about death and annoy John to the point where he starts to use violence to send them away.
He is an Alpha-minus.
He is a threatening figure, with the power to exile Bernard to Iceland.
He holds unorthodox beliefs about sexual relationships, sports, and community events.
He chose to give up science, and now he censors scientific discoveries and exiles people for unorthodox beliefs.
He and Bernard are friends because they find common ground in their discontent with the World State, but Helmholtz’s criticisms of the World State are more philosophical and intellectual than Bernard’s more petty complaints.
He also keeps a collection of forbidden literature in his safe, including Shakespeare and religious writings.
He also divulges that he too once risked banishment to an island because of some scientific experiments that were deemed controversial by the state, giving insight into his sympathetic tone.
George Orwell believed that Brave New World must be partly derived from the novel We by Yevgeny Zamyatin.[6][7]
From afar, Lenina thinks it will be exciting.
For the Slump brought even more disillusionment than the War.
For example, she defies her culture’s conventions by dating one man exclusively for several months, she is attracted to Bernard—the misfit—and she develops a violent passion for John the Savage.
For Brave New World, Huxley unsurprisingly received nearly universal criticism from contemporary critics, although his work was later embraced.
For 18 years, they have been treated as outsiders: the native men treated Linda like a sex object while the native women regularly beat and ostracized her because of her promiscuity, and John was mistreated and excluded for his mother's actions and the color of his skin.
Following the war, which seems to have petered out rather than been ended by a decisive victory, the global economy collapsed and created an unprecedented worldwide economic crisis.
Following the riot, Bernard, Helmholtz and John are brought before Mustapha Mond, the Resident World Controller for Western Europe.
Fetuses chosen to become members of the highest caste, 'Alpha', are allowed to develop naturally while maturing to term in "decanting bottles", while fetuses chosen to become members of the lower castes ('Beta', 'Gamma', 'Delta', 'Epsilon') are subjected to in situ chemical interference to cause arrested development in intelligence or physical growth.
Fanny’s role is mainly to voice the conventional values of her caste and society.
Fanny Crowne – Lenina Crowne’s friend (they have the same last name because only about ten thousand last names are in use in the World State).
Even the few sympathetic critics tended to temper their praises with disparaging remarks.
Even Lenina comes to watch, crying a tear John does not see.
Epsilons are dressed in black, Deltas in khaki, Gammas in leaf green, Betas in mulberry, and Alphas in grey.
Each caste is further subdivided into Plus and Minus (with Epsilons having the additional classifications of regular or semi-moron), and are distinguished by colour-coded work clothes.
Each 'Alpha' or 'Beta' is the product of one unique fertilized egg developing into one unique fetus.
During a storm, she got lost, suffered a head injury and was left behind.
Death isn't feared; anyone reflecting upon it is reassured by the knowledge that everyone is happy, and that society goes on.
Courting disaster, he is vocal about being different, once stating he dislikes soma because he'd "rather be himself." Bernard's differences fuel rumors that he was accidentally administered alcohol while incubated, a method used to keep Epsilons short.
Conversations with Linda and John reveal that their life has been hard.
Conditioning trains people to consume and never to enjoy being alone, so by spending an afternoon not playing "Obstacle Golf," or not in bed with a friend, one is forfeiting acceptance.
Citizens in the World State of all castes are not born to a mother, but instead created in laboratories through a process of artificial insemination.
By this time, Huxley had already established himself as a writer and social satirist.
By the time the novel is set, the World State is fully established and almost all the people of Earth are citizens.
But it was not native to us; it went with a buoyant, not to say blatant optimism, which is not our negligent or negative optimism.
But he is secretly vulnerable because he fathered a child (John), a scandalous and obscene act in the World State.
Brave New World's ironic title derives from Miranda's speech in William Shakespeare's The Tempest, Act V, Scene I:
Brave New World was Huxley's fifth novel and first dystopian work.
Brave New World is more of a revolt against Utopia than against Victoria.[9]
Brave New World is a novel written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley and published in 1932.
Beyond providing social engagement and distraction in the material realm of work or play, the need for transcendence, solitude and spiritual communion is addressed with the ubiquitous availability and universally endorsed consumption of the drug soma.
Bernard’s surname recalls Karl Marx, the nineteenth-century German author best known for writing The Communist Manifesto and Das Kapital, a monumental critique of capitalist society.
Bernard, thinking that for the first time in his life he has the upper hand, defends himself by presenting the Director with his long-lost lover and unknown son, Linda and John.
Bernard's only friend is Helmholtz Watson, an Alpha Plus lecturer at the College of Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing).
Bernard wants to take them back to block Thomas from his plan to reassign Bernard to Iceland as punishment for his asocial beliefs.
Bernard turns to the person he'd believed to be his one true friend, only to see Helmholtz fall into a quick, easy camaraderie with John.
Bernard is on holiday at a Savage Reservation.
Bernard is left an outcast yet again as he watches the only two men with whom he ever connected find more of interest in each other than they ever did in him.
Bernard arranges permission for Linda and John to leave the reservation.
Bernard and Helmholtz arrive to help John, but only Helmholtz helps him, while Bernard stands to the side, torn between risking involvement by helping or escaping the scene.
Bernard Marx – An Alpha-plus male who fails to fit in because of his inferior physical stature.
Bernard (who breaks down during the middle of the conversation) and Helmholtz are told they will be exiled to islands of their choice.
Below them, in descending order of intelligence and physique, are Gammas, Deltas, and Epsilons.
At the very pinnacle of society sit Alpha Double-Plus, who serve as the future scientists and top administrators of the world.
At the time of the novel, the entire planet is united as the World State, governed by ten World Controllers, headquartered in various key cities.
At the same time, John has been denied the religious rituals of the village, although he has watched them and even has had some religious experiences on his own in the desert.
As a result, Helmholtz often finds Bernard’s boastfulness and cowardice tedious.
An early trip to the United States gave Brave New World much of its character.
Although the novel is set in the future it deals with contemporary issues of the early 20th century.
Although an Alpha Plus, Bernard is shorter in stature than the average of his caste—a quality shared by the lower castes, which gives him an inferiority complex.
All children are educated via the hypnopaedic process, which provides each child with caste-appropriate subconscious messages to mold the child's lifelong self-image and social outlook to that chosen by the leaders and their predetermined plans for producing future adult generations.
After the Age of Utopias came what we may call the American Age, lasting as long as the Boom.
After Bernard and Helmholtz have left, Mustapha and John engage in a philosophical argument on the morals behind the existing society and then John is told the "experiment" will continue and he will not be sent to an island.
Accordingly, many of the novel's characters are named after widely recognized, influential and in many cases contemporary people, for example, Polly Trotsky (Leon Trotsky), Benito Hoover (Benito Mussolini; Herbert Hoover), Lenina Crowne (Vladimir Lenin; John Crowne), Fanny Crowne (Fanny Brawne; John Crowne), Mustapha Mond (Mustafa Kemal Atatürk; Alfred Mond and Ludwig Mond, at whose factory Huxley worked for a time, which helped to inspire the novel), Helmholtz Watson (Hermann von Helmholtz; John B. Watson), Henry Foster (Henry Ford), Bernard Marx (George Bernard Shaw; Karl Marx), Morgana Rothschild (The Rothschild banking family), Joanna Diesel (Rudolf Diesel), Fifi Bradlaugh (Charles Bradlaugh), Sarojini Engels (Sarojini Naidu; Friedrich Engels), Clara Deterding (Henri Deterding), Tom Kawaguchi (Ekai Kawaguchi) and Herbert Bakunin (Herbert George Wells; Mikhail Bakunin).
According to the novel, the "Nine Years' War" broke out in Year 141 AF (2049 AD of the Gregorian calendar).
According to the World State, sex is a social activity, rather than a means of reproduction (sex is encouraged from early childhood).
A new bitterness, and a new bewilderment, ran through all social life, and was reflected in all literature and art.
A group of Indians found her and brought her to their village.
A few isolated areas have been left as "savage reservations", including parts of New Mexico, Samoa, and a small group of islands off the coast of New Guinea.
