young boys that enter the ward to be conditioned about death and annoy John to
Years' War and the Great Economic Collapse, the new world leaders tried to
years' time.  People of these castes make up the majority of human society, and
years, they have been treated as outsiders: the native men treated Linda like a
year in which the Model T automobile was produced by the Ford Motor Company.
worldwide economic crisis.  To deal with the two catastrophes of the Nine
World was inspired by the utopian novels of H.G.  Wells, including A Modern
World State, governed by ten World Controllers, headquartered in various key
World's ironic title derives from Miranda's speech in William Shakespeare's The
world of the future.  An early trip to the United States gave Brave New World
world monuments that had survived the Nine Years' War.  By the time the novel
with the ubiquitous availability and universally endorsed consumption of the
with sleep-teaching has led him to realize that what others believe to be their
with excitement, and utters, among other praise, the famous line above.
will inspire his writing, but Bernard simply does not want to leave London; he
will continue and he will not be sent to an island.  John meets with Bernard
widespread resistance, including large-scale riots at Golders Green and a
widely recognized, influential and in many cases contemporary people, for
why his society meets the emotional needs of its citizens.  Courting disaster,
who quells the riot by filling the room with soma.  Bernard and Helmholtz
Whilst Lenina is in the bathroom, humiliated and putting her clothes on, John
While visiting the New Mexico Savage Reservation, she became pregnant with the
which makes her attractive to the reader.  For example, she defies her
When she sees other people for the first time, she is understandably overcome
when his mother succumbs to soma and dies.  He is extremely annoyed by the
what he sees as a "brave new world." Translations of the title often allude to
were resonating throughout the world as a whole and the individual lives of
was spurred to write Brave New World with America in mind.  The "feelies" are
warns Lenina that she should have more men in her life because it looks bad to
Warden is the talkative chief administrator for the New Mexico Savage
Voltaire (1759).  Huxley wrote Brave New World in 1931 while he was living in
voice the conventional values of her caste and society.  Specifically, she
village, although he has watched them and even has had some religious
value consumption with such platitudes as "ending is better than mending,"
vaccination worker at the Central London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre.  She
Utopia (1905) and Men Like Gods (1923).[5] Wells' hopeful vision of the
upper hand, defends himself by presenting the Director with his long-lost lover
upheavals of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the First World War (1914–1918)
unsurprisingly received nearly universal criticism from contemporary critics,
unpleasant climates are not "civilised" by the government, as it would be
uneconomical.  Subsequently, these areas are left as reservations, and local
unconsciousness.  Soon after, the couple encounters Linda, a woman who has been
unbridled emotion drives the crowd wild with excitement, and — handling it as
to use his writing abilities for something more meaningful.  He and Bernard are
tourist fashion, Bernard and Lenina watch what at first appears to be a quaint
to the hatchery line to produce the five classes or castes named after letters
to temper their praises with disparaging remarks.  The novel opens in London in
to soma.  When she returned she was treated to a series of soma baths and a
to reassign Bernard to Iceland as punishment for his asocial beliefs.  Bernard
to live in, or do not fit into the normal society.  The two billion citizens of
to exile Bernard to Iceland.  But he is secretly vulnerable because he fathered
to everyone else" is repeated often, and the idea of a "family" is considered
to an island because of some scientific experiments that were deemed
throwing their soma rations out a window.  The ensuing riot brings the police,
through a process of artificial insemination.  They are then grown to 'birth'
threatened, Bernard can be petty and cruel.  Helmholtz Watson – An Alpha
thousands of children.  To further increase the birthrate of Gammas, Deltas and
thousand last names are in use in the World State).  Fanny’s role is mainly to
though, and he especially is interested in Othello, Romeo and Juliet, and
Thomas, the Director of the Hatchery and Conditioning Centre who, in front of
this time, Huxley had already established himself as a writer and social
they are conditioned to — they turn on each other, in a frenzy of beating and
the World State constitute a eusocial consumer society whose individuals are
the World State.  Bernard’s surname recalls Karl Marx, the nineteenth-century
the World State as wonderful and introduces Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx.
the ritual quickly becomes a passion play where a village boy is whipped to
There was a fear of Americanization in Europe.  Thus seeing America firsthand,
the production of such specialized children bolsters the efficiency and harmony
the point where he starts to use violence to send them away.  John's grief
the point of the story being told) up to 96 children and one ovary to produce
the planet, and caused massive physical damage.  It is repeatedly stated that
the One World State and began a peaceful campaign of change.  This campaign
the novel), Helmholtz Watson (Hermann von Helmholtz; John B. Watson), Henry
the New Mexico Savage Reservation, and he finds himself similarly unable to fit
the more bitter memories of civilization.  To atone, John brutally whips
the morals behind the existing society and then John is told the "experiment"
their ship.  Huxley employs the same irony when the "savage" John refers to
the developed world.  The political, cultural, economic and sociological
The consummate outsider, he has spent his life alienated from his village on
The conditioning system eliminates the need for professional competitiveness;
the basis of futurology.  Huxley answered this book with a reassessment in an
than throw them away repugnant, and the situation is made worse when she
Tempest, Act V, Scene I: This line itself is ironic; Miranda was raised for
tear John does not see.  The sight of the woman whom he both adores and blames
taking soma.  John wants to see the "brave new world" his mother has told him
system of values.  Mustapha Mond – The Resident World Controller of Western
successful satirical novels: Crome Yellow (1921), Antic Hay (1923), Those
subjects like corporate tyranny and behavioral conditioning) and the works of
struggles with Mond and is thrown out of the office.  After Bernard and
State is a unified government which administers the entire planet, with a few
State, but Helmholtz’s criticisms of the World State are more philosophical and
Stability.  The citizens of the World State use a calendar which takes the year
so much about.  Bernard wants to take them back to block Thomas from his plan
soma holiday while John, appalled by what he perceives to be an empty society,
soma and sing hymns.  The ritual progresses through group hypnosis and climaxes
solved the social riddle and made capitalism the common good.  But it was not
society, rather than from a systematic or philosophical criticism of it.  When
Society is controlled by Alphas and their subordinates, Betas.  Below them, in
simultaneously, allowing the hatchery to get full use of the ovary in two
similar expressions used in domestic works of literature in an attempt to
side, torn between risking involvement by helping or escaping the scene.
short-lived.  Linda, decrepit, toothless, and friendless, goes on a permanent
shared by the lower castes, which gives him an inferiority complex.  His work
shame.  Spared from reassignment, Bernard makes John the toast of London.
Shakespeare’s plays, which he can quote with great facility.  Bernard Marx – An
sex object while the native women regularly beat and ostracized her because of
setting and characters from his science fiction novel to express widely held
sense of loneliness stems from being too gifted, too intelligent, too handsome,
self-medicating comfort mechanism in the face of stress or discomfort, thereby
seems to have an attraction to Lenina, as while Bernard is away, getting the
securely contained groups of "savages" are left to their own devices.  These
scientists and top administrators of the world.  Citizens in the World State of
Savage.  Ultimately, her values are those of a conventional World State
"savage reservations", including parts of New Mexico, Samoa, and a small group
satirist.  He was a contributor to Vanity Fair and Vogue magazines, had
Rothschild (The Rothschild banking family), Joanna Diesel (Rudolf Diesel), Fifi
reveals further details of the World State's political geography.  Mond
return to the World State with a baby.  Her World State–conditioned promiscuity
return to her familiar world in London, as she misses living in the city and
Reservation.  He is an Alpha-minus.  The World State is the primary setting of
reproduction (sex is encouraged from early childhood).  The few women who can
reproduce are conditioned to use birth control, even wearing a "Malthusian
rendered obsolete because they are no longer needed.  Marriage, natural birth,
reinforces each individual's place in the caste system.  To grow closer with
refuses to attend Bernard's parties.  Society drops Bernard as swiftly as it
reflected in all literature and art.  It was contemptuous, not only of the old
receives a telephone call from the hospital telling him that his mother is
"rather be himself." Bernard's differences fuel rumors that he was accidentally
Pursued by the highest members of society, able to bed any woman he fancies,
published before 150 AF (2058 AD), and the destruction of the few historical
published a collection of his poetry (The Burning Wheel, 1916) and four
providing social engagement and distraction in the material realm of work or
provide these inner-directed personal experiences within a socially managed
promises of socialism and a World State were then viewed as the ideas of naive
produced in hatcheries by application of "Bokanovsky's"[1] and other techniques
print[vague] of Brave New World states that Huxley was inspired to write the
pornographic; sexual competition and emotional, romantic relationships are
Plus, Bernard is shorter in stature than the average of his caste—a quality
pleasant death.  The Director – The Director administrates the Central London
play, the need for transcendence, solitude and spiritual communion is addressed
physicist performing illicit research.  When his work was discovered, he was
physical abilities, as well as the scope of their ambitions and the complexity
philosopher Gottfried Leibniz[4] and satirized in Candide, Ou l'Optimisme by
pessimism.  For the Slump brought even more disillusionment than the War.  A
person, she finds the aged, toothless natives who mend their clothes rather
permission to move the savages, he finds her suitcase and ruffels through all
permanently limited to no more than two billion people) and everyone is happy.
people to consume and never to enjoy being alone, so by spending an afternoon
peoples of Acoma, Laguna, and Zuni, and the Ramah Navajo, begin by singing, but
people are literally bred to do their jobs and cannot desire another.  There is
participated that countered his beliefs, makes one last attempt to escape
parenthood, and pregnancy are considered too obscene to be mentioned in casual
own deeply held beliefs are merely phrases repeated to children while they are
our negligent or negative optimism.  Much more than Victorian righteousness, or
optimists.  After the Age of Utopias came what we may call the American Age,
opinions, particularly the fear of losing individual identity in the fast-paced
opened and technologically advanced Brunner and Mond plant, part of Imperial
on the thesis that humanity would solve all economic and social issues.  In the
on enjoyable, hangover-free "holidays".  It was developed by the World State to
of their desires, thus rendering them easier to control.  All children are
of the Gregorian calendar).  Very little is revealed of the Nine Years' War,
of the Greek alphabet: alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon, respectively.
of the catastrophe.  The works of H. G. Wells and George Bernard Shaw on the
often finds Bernard’s boastfulness and cowardice tedious.  Lenina Crowne – A
of society, since these people are deliberately limited in their cognitive and
of islands off the coast of New Guinea.  Toward the end of the novel, a
of his caste, but feels that his work is empty and meaningless and would like
of her clothes, taking in the smells.  He then sees her "sleeping" and stares
novel, which became Brave New World.  Unlike the most popular optimist utopian
novels of the time, Huxley sought to provide a frightening vision of the
not playing "Obstacle Golf," or not in bed with a friend, one is forfeiting
no competition within castes; each caste member receives the same food,
new bitterness, and a new bewilderment, ran through all social life, and was
Natural reproduction has been done away with and children are created,
native to us; it went with a buoyant, not to say blatant optimism, which is not
native ceremony.  The village folk, whose culture resembles the contemporary
much of its character.  Not only was Huxley outraged by the culture of youth,
much a threat to force freethinkers to reform and rejoin society as it is a
mother had taught him to read, although he only had two books: a scientific
most people.  Accordingly, many of the novel's characters are named after
most of her life on an isolated island, and the only people she ever knew were
morning, frenzied at the prospect of seeing the savage perform again, they find
monumental critique of capitalist society.  Unlike his famous namesake,
Mond, the Resident World Controller for Western Europe.  Bernard (who breaks
"Mond" is similar to the French word "monde", which means “world”, and Mond is
members of the same class, citizens participate in mock religious services
members) and designed to fulfill predetermined positions within the social and
massacre at the British Museum.  Realising that they could not force people to
Marquesas Islands, are reserved for citizens of the World State who do not wish
manual from his mother's job, which he called a "beastly, beastly book," and a
makes her a social outcast.  She is desperate to return to the World State and
maintained good health and youthfulness their whole life.  Death isn't feared;
Ludwig Mond, at whose factory Huxley worked for a time, which helped to inspire
lovers, he is a perfectly conventional Alpha male, casually discussing Lenina’s
London where he finds his hermit life interrupted from mourning his mother by
London News, G. K. Chesterton explained that Huxley was revolting against the
living in Malpais since she came on a trip and became separated from her group,
literature in his safe, including Shakespeare and religious writings.  The name
list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.  Brave New
Linda's death prompts John to try to force humanity from the workers by
Linda could not get an abortion on the Reservation, and she was too ashamed to
life.  Hundreds of gawking sightseers, intrigued by John's violent behavior,
life continues—albeit under constant surveillance by the World State.  Small
Lenina Crowne’s friend (they have the same last name because only about ten
Lenina, a hatchery worker, is socially accepted and comfortable with her place
left behind.  A group of Indians found her and brought her to their village.
lecturer at the College of Emotional Engineering, Helmholtz is a prime example
later tells himself off for being like this towards Lenina, and seems to be
lasting as long as the Boom.  Men like Ford or Mond seemed to many to have
John is the only major character to have grown up outside of the World State.
John dead from a suicidal hanging.  The following is a list of the major
John, but John pushes her away, calling her out on her sexually wanton ways.
Italy (he moved to the neighbourhood of Eagle Rock in Los Angeles in 1937).  By
is unified under the World State, an eternally peaceful, stable global society
is unable to share Bernard’s disaffection or to comprehend John’s alternate
is too much for him; John attacks and whips her.  This sight of genuine,
is the bedrock of economic and social stability for the World State.  Beyond
is set, the World State is fully established and almost all the people of Earth
isolated exceptions.  The motto of the World State is Community, Identity,
islands across the planet, such as the Falkland Islands, Iceland, and the
Island (1962).  In 1999, the Modern Library ranked Brave New World fifth on its
is a parody of the ubiquitous chewing gum, which was something of a symbol of
is an object of desire for a number of major and minor characters, including
in which goods and resources are plentiful (because the population is
in to World State society.  His entire worldview is based on his knowledge of
into one unique fetus.  Members of lower castes are not unique but are instead
interference to cause arrested development in intelligence or physical growth.
intellectual than Bernard’s more petty complaints.  As a result, Helmholtz
in society, while Bernard, a psychologist, is an outcast.  Although an Alpha
in mass air-raids against cities, similar to the portrayal of World War III.
influence the population.  He also divulges that he too once risked banishment
Industrial Revolution had transformed the world.  Mass production had made
Indian groups of the region, descendants of the Anasazi, including the Puebloan
indeed the most powerful character in the world of this novel.  Fanny Crowne –
in "decanting bottles", while fetuses chosen to become members of the lower
included the closing of museums, the suppression of almost all literature
in bottles, the bottles being treated in a manner similar to a production line.
in an orgy.  In geographic areas nonconducive to easy living and consumption,
i.e., buy a new item instead of fixing the old one, because constant
hypnopaedically inculcated affinity for the State-produced drug, as a
Huxley's fifth novel and first dystopian work.  Huxley said that Brave New
However, what she is actually observing is not men acting in a refined or
housing, and soma rationing as every other member of that caste.  There is no
hopeless, alone, horrified by his drug use and the orgy in which he
Hoover), Lenina Crowne (Vladimir Lenin; John Crowne), Fanny Crowne (Fanny
His self-flagellation, caught on film and shown publicly, destroys his hermit
his response to the "talkie" motion pictures, and the sex-hormone chewing gum
his imminent exile and having restored his friendship with Helmholtz.  In the
himself in the open, a ritual the Indians in his own village had denied him.
him.  John and Helmholtz's island of peace is brief.  Lenina tries to seduce
highest caste, 'Alpha', are allowed to develop naturally while maturing to term
her promiscuity, and John was mistreated and excluded for his mother's actions
her father and his servants, an enslaved savage and spirits, namely Ariel.
Herbert Bakunin (Herbert George Wells; Mikhail Bakunin).  Huxley used the
Helmholtz have left, Mustapha and John engage in a philosophical argument on
Helmholtz chooses the Falkland Islands, believing that their terrible weather
he is vocal about being different, once stating he dislikes soma because he'd
He holds unorthodox beliefs about sexual relationships, sports, and community
he ever connected find more of interest in each other than they ever did in
He chose to give up science, and now he censors scientific discoveries and
having the additional classifications of regular or semi-moron), and are
Hatchery and Conditioning Centre.  He is a threatening figure, with the power
Hamlet.  At the same time, John has been denied the religious rituals of the
had taken him.  Bernard turns to the person he'd believed to be his one true
given the choice of going into exile or training to become a World Controller.
get her out of her soma holiday so that he can talk to her.  He is heartbroken
German author best known for writing The Communist Manifesto and Das Kapital, a
gave birth to a son, John (later referred to as John the Savage) who is now 18.
future's possibilities gave Huxley the idea to begin writing a parody of the
future it deals with contemporary issues of the early 20th century.  The
future.  Huxley referred to Brave New World as a "negative utopia" (see
friends because they find common ground in their discontent with the World
friend, only to see Helmholtz fall into a quick, easy camaraderie with John.
Foster (Henry Ford), Bernard Marx (George Bernard Shaw; Karl Marx), Morgana
for producing future adult generations.  To maintain the World State's Command
forcibly impose their new ideologies on Earth's populations.  This met with
for being subversive).  Shakespeare gives John articulation to his feelings,
Following the war, which seems to have petered out rather than been ended by a
Following the riot, Bernard, Helmholtz and John are brought before Mustapha
fly out to watch the savage in person.  Even Lenina comes to watch, crying a
final chapter, John isolates himself from society in a lighthouse outside
father, which causes an uproar of laughter.  The humiliated Director resigns in
facilities for an abortion.  Her shame at pregnancy was so great that she
extremely unwell.  He rushes over to see her and sits at her bedside, trying to
extremely shy around her.  Upon his return to London, Bernard is confronted by
explains that certain areas which have very few resources or languish in
experiences on his own in the desert.  Old, weathered and tired, Linda wants to
exiles people for unorthodox beliefs.  He also keeps a collection of forbidden
exiled to islands of their choice.  Mond explains that this exile is not so
example, Polly Trotsky (Leon Trotsky), Benito Hoover (Benito Mussolini; Herbert
even Victorian self-righteousness, that optimism has driven people into
events.  His insecurity about his size and status makes him discontented with
Europe, one of only ten World Controllers.  He was once an ambitious, young
essay, Brave New World Revisited (1958) and with his final work, a novel titled
equivalent of an archbishop in the World State society.  The Warden – The
Epsilons, Podsnap's Technique causes all the eggs in the ovary to mature
Epsilons.  Each caste is further subdivided into Plus and Minus (with Epsilons
Engels), Clara Deterding (Henri Deterding), Tom Kawaguchi (Ekai Kawaguchi) and
eliminates the need for religion or other personal allegiances outside or
educated via the hypnopaedic process, which provides each child with
Economy for the indefinite future, all citizens are conditioned from birth to
economic strata of the World State.  Fetuses chosen to become members of the
Each 'Alpha' or 'Beta' is the product of one unique fertilized egg developing
dystopia), somewhat influenced by Wells' own The Sleeper Awakes (dealing with
drug soma.  Soma is an allusion to a mythical drink of the same name consumed
down during the middle of the conversation) and Helmholtz are told they will be
divided into five castes (which are further split into 'Plus' and 'Minus'
distinguished by colour-coded work clothes.  Epsilons are dressed in black,
display unconventional thoughts.  A few isolated areas have been left as
discovers that she has left her soma tablets at the resort hotel.  In typical
Director’s son.  During a storm, she got lost, suffered a head injury and was
D. H. Lawrence.  George Orwell believed that Brave New World must be partly
developments in reproductive technology and sleep-learning that combine to
detailed account of the processes he saw.  The introduction to the most recent
des mondes ("The Best of All Worlds"), an allusion to an expression used by the
desire to change one's caste, largely because a person's sleep-conditioning
descending order of intelligence and physique, are Gammas, Deltas, and
derived from the novel We by Yevgeny Zamyatin.[6][7] Huxley visited the newly
Deltas in khaki, Gammas in leaf green, Betas in mulberry, and Alphas in grey.
decisive victory, the global economy collapsed and created an unprecedented
decided not to return to her old life, but to stay with the "savages".  Linda
'decanted' and raised in Hatcheries and Conditioning Centres, where they are
decade following the war the discourse shifted to an examination of the causes
curio in the outside world.  In its first chapters, the novel describes life in
culture’s conventions by dating one man exclusively for several months, she is
created using the Bokanovsky process which enables a single egg to spawn (at
conversation.  Thus, society has developed a new idea of reproductive
Conversations with Linda and John reveal that their life has been hard.  For 18
conversation between John and Western Europe's World Controller, Mustapha Mond,
controversial by the state, giving insight into his sympathetic tone.
contraceptives") as a popular fashion accessory.  The maxim "everyone belongs
context of State-run 'religious' organizations; social clubs.  The
consumption, and near-universal employment to meet society's material demands,
concentrate on one man for too long.  Henry Foster – One of Lenina’s many
comprehension.  Spending time alone is considered an outrageous waste of time
community named Malpais.  From afar, Lenina thinks it will be exciting.  In
commercial cheeriness, sexual promiscuity and the inward-looking nature of many
College of Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing).  The friendship is
collection of Shakespeare's works (which have been banned in the World State
classic novel by this Billingham visit.  Although the novel is set in the
civilized manner, but rather drunken sailors staggering off the wreckage of
civilization and atone.  When thousands of gawking sightseers arrive that
citizen: her primary means of relating to other people is through sex, and she
cities.  Prospective World Controllers are recruited from social outcasts who
Chemical Industries, or ICI, Billingham, United Kingdom, and gives a fine and
chemical and biological weapons were heavily used during the war, particularly
characters involved in the novel: John – The son of the Director and Linda,
chanting that devolves into a mass orgy of soma and sex.  In the morning, John,
change society.  The future society is an embodiment of the ideals that form
chance for them to act as they please because they will not be able to
castes ('Beta', 'Gamma', 'Delta', 'Epsilon') are subjected to in situ chemical
caste-appropriate subconscious messages to mold the child's lifelong self-image
cars, telephones, and radios relatively cheap and widely available throughout
capture the same irony: the French edition of the work is entitled Le Meilleur
Capitalism, but of the old Socialism.  Brave New World is more of a revolt
can talk to Bernard about his desire to write poetry.  Bernard is on holiday at
called Solidarity Services, in which twelve people consume large quantities of
by ancient Indo-Aryans.  In the book, soma is a hallucinogen that takes users
but it can be inferred that the conflict broke out in Europe, affected most of
Brawne; John Crowne), Mustapha Mond (Mustafa Kemal Atatürk; Alfred Mond and
Brave New World is a novel written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley and published in
Bradlaugh (Charles Bradlaugh), Sarojini Engels (Sarojini Naidu; Friedrich
body with his coworkers.  His success with Lenina, and his casual attitude
beyond the World State.  Recreational sex is an integral part of society.
bewilders and revolts the hospital workers, and their lack of reaction to
Bernard's only friend is Helmholtz Watson, an Alpha Plus lecturer at the
Bernard’s discontent stems from his frustrated desire to fit into his own
Bernard's boss, the Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning, Thomas.  She
Bernard revels in attention he once scorned.  The victory, however, is
Bernard Marx and John.  Her behavior is sometimes intriguingly unorthodox,
Bernard is left an outcast yet again as he watches the only two men with whom
belt" (which resembles a cartridge belt and holds "the regulation supply of
behavior.  Bernard, thinking that for the first time in his life he has the
became pregnant despite adhering to her "Malthusian Drill" and there were no
based on their similar experiences as misfits, but unlike Bernard, Watson's
Barren Leaves (1925) and Point Counter Point (1928).  Brave New World was
attracted to Bernard—the misfit—and she develops a violent passion for John the
At the very pinnacle of society sit Alpha Double-Plus, who serve as the future
attacked one in a jealous rage while a child.  John's one joy was that his
at her, thinking all he has to do to see her properly is undo one zip.  He
asleep.  Still, he recognizes the necessity of such programming as the reason
a Savage Reservation.  The reservation, located in New Mexico, consists of a
arrive to help John, but only Helmholtz helps him, while Bernard stands to the
arranges permission for Linda and John to leave the reservation.  John also
are citizens.  At the time of the novel, the entire planet is united as the
are beholden of strange customs, including self-mutilation and religion, a mere
Arch-Community-Songster – The Arch-Community-Songster is the secular, shallow
appear to be similar to the reservations of land established for the Native
apologizes to John for his opportunistic behavior, having come to terms with
anyone reflecting upon it is reassured by the knowledge that everyone is happy,
and unknown son, Linda and John.  John falls to his knees and calls Thomas his
and too physically strong.  Helmholtz is drawn to Bernard as a confidant: he
and the color of his skin.  John was angered by Linda's lovers, and even
and that society goes on.  Since no one has family, they have no ties to mourn.
and social outlook to that chosen by the leaders and their predetermined plans
and money, and wanting to be an individual is horrifying.  Conditioning trains
and Helmholtz once again before their departures from London and Bernard
and from reading the ideas and plans of one of its foremost citizens, Huxley
an audience of higher-caste Centre workers, denounces Bernard for his asocial
among whom was a man to whom she refers as "Tomakin" but who is revealed to be
Americans,[8] he had also found a book by Henry Ford on the boat to America.
American population during the colonisation of North America.  These 'savages'
America at that time.  In an article in the 4 May 1935 issue of the Illustrated
although his work was later embraced.  Even the few sympathetic critics tended
Alpha-plus male who fails to fit in because of his inferior physical stature.
all castes are not born to a mother, but instead created in laboratories
Aldous Huxley's 1932 dystopian novel Brave New World.  In the novel, the World
"Age of Utopias".  Much of the discourse on man's future before 1914 was based
against Utopia than against Victoria.[9] For Brave New World, Huxley
adopt the new lifestyle, the World Controllers instead united the planet into
administered alcohol while incubated, a method used to keep Epsilons short.
a child (John), a scandalous and obscene act in the World State.  The
According to the World State, sex is a social activity, rather than a means of
According to the novel, the "Nine Years' War" broke out in Year 141 AF (2049 AD
acceptance.  In the World State, people typically die at age 60[11] having
about it, infuriate the jealous Bernard.  Linda – John’s mother, and a Beta.
632 (AD 2540 in the Gregorian Calendar).  The vast majority of the population
1932.  Set in London of AD 2540 (632 A.F. in the book), the novel anticipates
1908 AD ("0 AF" - "Anno Ford") as its starting point, as this was the first
