1908 AD ("0 AF" - "Anno Ford") as its starting point, as this was the first
1932.  Set in London of AD 2540 (632 A.F. in the book), the novel anticipates
632 (AD 2540 in the Gregorian Calendar).  The vast majority of the population
about it, infuriate the jealous Bernard.  Linda – John’s mother, and a Beta.
acceptance.  In the World State, people typically die at age 60[11] having
According to the novel, the "Nine Years' War" broke out in Year 141 AF (2049 AD
According to the World State, sex is a social activity, rather than a means of
a child (John), a scandalous and obscene act in the World State.  The
administered alcohol while incubated, a method used to keep Epsilons short.
adopt the new lifestyle, the World Controllers instead united the planet into
against Utopia than against Victoria.[9] For Brave New World, Huxley
"Age of Utopias".  Much of the discourse on man's future before 1914 was based
Aldous Huxley's 1932 dystopian novel Brave New World.  In the novel, the World
all castes are not born to a mother, but instead created in laboratories
Alpha-plus male who fails to fit in because of his inferior physical stature.
although his work was later embraced.  Even the few sympathetic critics tended
America at that time.  In an article in the 4 May 1935 issue of the Illustrated
American population during the colonisation of North America.  These 'savages'
Americans,[8] he had also found a book by Henry Ford on the boat to America.
among whom was a man to whom she refers as "Tomakin" but who is revealed to be
an audience of higher-caste Centre workers, denounces Bernard for his asocial
and from reading the ideas and plans of one of its foremost citizens, Huxley
and Helmholtz once again before their departures from London and Bernard
and money, and wanting to be an individual is horrifying.  Conditioning trains
and social outlook to that chosen by the leaders and their predetermined plans
and that society goes on.  Since no one has family, they have no ties to mourn.
and the color of his skin.  John was angered by Linda's lovers, and even
and too physically strong.  Helmholtz is drawn to Bernard as a confidant: he
and unknown son, Linda and John.  John falls to his knees and calls Thomas his
anyone reflecting upon it is reassured by the knowledge that everyone is happy,
apologizes to John for his opportunistic behavior, having come to terms with
appear to be similar to the reservations of land established for the Native
Arch-Community-Songster – The Arch-Community-Songster is the secular, shallow
are beholden of strange customs, including self-mutilation and religion, a mere
are citizens.  At the time of the novel, the entire planet is united as the
arranges permission for Linda and John to leave the reservation.  John also
arrive to help John, but only Helmholtz helps him, while Bernard stands to the
a Savage Reservation.  The reservation, located in New Mexico, consists of a
asleep.  Still, he recognizes the necessity of such programming as the reason
at her, thinking all he has to do to see her properly is undo one zip.  He
attacked one in a jealous rage while a child.  John's one joy was that his
At the very pinnacle of society sit Alpha Double-Plus, who serve as the future
attracted to Bernard—the misfit—and she develops a violent passion for John the
Barren Leaves (1925) and Point Counter Point (1928).  Brave New World was
based on their similar experiences as misfits, but unlike Bernard, Watson's
became pregnant despite adhering to her "Malthusian Drill" and there were no
behavior.  Bernard, thinking that for the first time in his life he has the
belt" (which resembles a cartridge belt and holds "the regulation supply of
Bernard is left an outcast yet again as he watches the only two men with whom
Bernard Marx and John.  Her behavior is sometimes intriguingly unorthodox,
Bernard revels in attention he once scorned.  The victory, however, is
Bernard's boss, the Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning, Thomas.  She
Bernard’s discontent stems from his frustrated desire to fit into his own
Bernard's only friend is Helmholtz Watson, an Alpha Plus lecturer at the
bewilders and revolts the hospital workers, and their lack of reaction to
beyond the World State.  Recreational sex is an integral part of society.
body with his coworkers.  His success with Lenina, and his casual attitude
Bradlaugh (Charles Bradlaugh), Sarojini Engels (Sarojini Naidu; Friedrich
Brave New World is a novel written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley and published in
Brawne; John Crowne), Mustapha Mond (Mustafa Kemal Atatürk; Alfred Mond and
but it can be inferred that the conflict broke out in Europe, affected most of
by ancient Indo-Aryans.  In the book, soma is a hallucinogen that takes users
called Solidarity Services, in which twelve people consume large quantities of
can talk to Bernard about his desire to write poetry.  Bernard is on holiday at
Capitalism, but of the old Socialism.  Brave New World is more of a revolt
capture the same irony: the French edition of the work is entitled Le Meilleur
cars, telephones, and radios relatively cheap and widely available throughout
caste-appropriate subconscious messages to mold the child's lifelong self-image
castes ('Beta', 'Gamma', 'Delta', 'Epsilon') are subjected to in situ chemical
chance for them to act as they please because they will not be able to
change society.  The future society is an embodiment of the ideals that form
chanting that devolves into a mass orgy of soma and sex.  In the morning, John,
characters involved in the novel: John – The son of the Director and Linda,
chemical and biological weapons were heavily used during the war, particularly
Chemical Industries, or ICI, Billingham, United Kingdom, and gives a fine and
cities.  Prospective World Controllers are recruited from social outcasts who
citizen: her primary means of relating to other people is through sex, and she
civilization and atone.  When thousands of gawking sightseers arrive that
civilized manner, but rather drunken sailors staggering off the wreckage of
classic novel by this Billingham visit.  Although the novel is set in the
collection of Shakespeare's works (which have been banned in the World State
College of Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing).  The friendship is
commercial cheeriness, sexual promiscuity and the inward-looking nature of many
community named Malpais.  From afar, Lenina thinks it will be exciting.  In
comprehension.  Spending time alone is considered an outrageous waste of time
concentrate on one man for too long.  Henry Foster – One of Lenina’s many
consumption, and near-universal employment to meet society's material demands,
context of State-run 'religious' organizations; social clubs.  The
contraceptives") as a popular fashion accessory.  The maxim "everyone belongs
controversial by the state, giving insight into his sympathetic tone.
conversation between John and Western Europe's World Controller, Mustapha Mond,
Conversations with Linda and John reveal that their life has been hard.  For 18
conversation.  Thus, society has developed a new idea of reproductive
created using the Bokanovsky process which enables a single egg to spawn (at
culture’s conventions by dating one man exclusively for several months, she is
curio in the outside world.  In its first chapters, the novel describes life in
decade following the war the discourse shifted to an examination of the causes
'decanted' and raised in Hatcheries and Conditioning Centres, where they are
decided not to return to her old life, but to stay with the "savages".  Linda
decisive victory, the global economy collapsed and created an unprecedented
Deltas in khaki, Gammas in leaf green, Betas in mulberry, and Alphas in grey.
derived from the novel We by Yevgeny Zamyatin.[6][7] Huxley visited the newly
descending order of intelligence and physique, are Gammas, Deltas, and
desire to change one's caste, largely because a person's sleep-conditioning
des mondes ("The Best of All Worlds"), an allusion to an expression used by the
detailed account of the processes he saw.  The introduction to the most recent
developments in reproductive technology and sleep-learning that combine to
D. H. Lawrence.  George Orwell believed that Brave New World must be partly
Director’s son.  During a storm, she got lost, suffered a head injury and was
discovers that she has left her soma tablets at the resort hotel.  In typical
display unconventional thoughts.  A few isolated areas have been left as
distinguished by colour-coded work clothes.  Epsilons are dressed in black,
divided into five castes (which are further split into 'Plus' and 'Minus'
down during the middle of the conversation) and Helmholtz are told they will be
drug soma.  Soma is an allusion to a mythical drink of the same name consumed
dystopia), somewhat influenced by Wells' own The Sleeper Awakes (dealing with
Each 'Alpha' or 'Beta' is the product of one unique fertilized egg developing
economic strata of the World State.  Fetuses chosen to become members of the
Economy for the indefinite future, all citizens are conditioned from birth to
educated via the hypnopaedic process, which provides each child with
eliminates the need for religion or other personal allegiances outside or
Engels), Clara Deterding (Henri Deterding), Tom Kawaguchi (Ekai Kawaguchi) and
Epsilons.  Each caste is further subdivided into Plus and Minus (with Epsilons
Epsilons, Podsnap's Technique causes all the eggs in the ovary to mature
equivalent of an archbishop in the World State society.  The Warden – The
essay, Brave New World Revisited (1958) and with his final work, a novel titled
Europe, one of only ten World Controllers.  He was once an ambitious, young
events.  His insecurity about his size and status makes him discontented with
even Victorian self-righteousness, that optimism has driven people into
example, Polly Trotsky (Leon Trotsky), Benito Hoover (Benito Mussolini; Herbert
exiled to islands of their choice.  Mond explains that this exile is not so
exiles people for unorthodox beliefs.  He also keeps a collection of forbidden
experiences on his own in the desert.  Old, weathered and tired, Linda wants to
explains that certain areas which have very few resources or languish in
extremely shy around her.  Upon his return to London, Bernard is confronted by
extremely unwell.  He rushes over to see her and sits at her bedside, trying to
facilities for an abortion.  Her shame at pregnancy was so great that she
father, which causes an uproar of laughter.  The humiliated Director resigns in
final chapter, John isolates himself from society in a lighthouse outside
fly out to watch the savage in person.  Even Lenina comes to watch, crying a
Following the riot, Bernard, Helmholtz and John are brought before Mustapha
Following the war, which seems to have petered out rather than been ended by a
for being subversive).  Shakespeare gives John articulation to his feelings,
forcibly impose their new ideologies on Earth's populations.  This met with
for producing future adult generations.  To maintain the World State's Command
Foster (Henry Ford), Bernard Marx (George Bernard Shaw; Karl Marx), Morgana
friend, only to see Helmholtz fall into a quick, easy camaraderie with John.
friends because they find common ground in their discontent with the World
future.  Huxley referred to Brave New World as a "negative utopia" (see
future it deals with contemporary issues of the early 20th century.  The
future's possibilities gave Huxley the idea to begin writing a parody of the
gave birth to a son, John (later referred to as John the Savage) who is now 18.
German author best known for writing The Communist Manifesto and Das Kapital, a
get her out of her soma holiday so that he can talk to her.  He is heartbroken
given the choice of going into exile or training to become a World Controller.
had taken him.  Bernard turns to the person he'd believed to be his one true
Hamlet.  At the same time, John has been denied the religious rituals of the
Hatchery and Conditioning Centre.  He is a threatening figure, with the power
having the additional classifications of regular or semi-moron), and are
He chose to give up science, and now he censors scientific discoveries and
he ever connected find more of interest in each other than they ever did in
He holds unorthodox beliefs about sexual relationships, sports, and community
he is vocal about being different, once stating he dislikes soma because he'd
Helmholtz chooses the Falkland Islands, believing that their terrible weather
Helmholtz have left, Mustapha and John engage in a philosophical argument on
Herbert Bakunin (Herbert George Wells; Mikhail Bakunin).  Huxley used the
her father and his servants, an enslaved savage and spirits, namely Ariel.
her promiscuity, and John was mistreated and excluded for his mother's actions
highest caste, 'Alpha', are allowed to develop naturally while maturing to term
him.  John and Helmholtz's island of peace is brief.  Lenina tries to seduce
himself in the open, a ritual the Indians in his own village had denied him.
his imminent exile and having restored his friendship with Helmholtz.  In the
his response to the "talkie" motion pictures, and the sex-hormone chewing gum
His self-flagellation, caught on film and shown publicly, destroys his hermit
Hoover), Lenina Crowne (Vladimir Lenin; John Crowne), Fanny Crowne (Fanny
hopeless, alone, horrified by his drug use and the orgy in which he
housing, and soma rationing as every other member of that caste.  There is no
However, what she is actually observing is not men acting in a refined or
Huxley's fifth novel and first dystopian work.  Huxley said that Brave New
hypnopaedically inculcated affinity for the State-produced drug, as a
i.e., buy a new item instead of fixing the old one, because constant
in an orgy.  In geographic areas nonconducive to easy living and consumption,
in bottles, the bottles being treated in a manner similar to a production line.
included the closing of museums, the suppression of almost all literature
in "decanting bottles", while fetuses chosen to become members of the lower
indeed the most powerful character in the world of this novel.  Fanny Crowne –
Indian groups of the region, descendants of the Anasazi, including the Puebloan
Industrial Revolution had transformed the world.  Mass production had made
influence the population.  He also divulges that he too once risked banishment
in mass air-raids against cities, similar to the portrayal of World War III.
in society, while Bernard, a psychologist, is an outcast.  Although an Alpha
intellectual than Bernard’s more petty complaints.  As a result, Helmholtz
interference to cause arrested development in intelligence or physical growth.
into one unique fetus.  Members of lower castes are not unique but are instead
in to World State society.  His entire worldview is based on his knowledge of
in which goods and resources are plentiful (because the population is
is an object of desire for a number of major and minor characters, including
is a parody of the ubiquitous chewing gum, which was something of a symbol of
Island (1962).  In 1999, the Modern Library ranked Brave New World fifth on its
islands across the planet, such as the Falkland Islands, Iceland, and the
isolated exceptions.  The motto of the World State is Community, Identity,
is set, the World State is fully established and almost all the people of Earth
is the bedrock of economic and social stability for the World State.  Beyond
is too much for him; John attacks and whips her.  This sight of genuine,
is unable to share Bernard’s disaffection or to comprehend John’s alternate
is unified under the World State, an eternally peaceful, stable global society
Italy (he moved to the neighbourhood of Eagle Rock in Los Angeles in 1937).  By
John, but John pushes her away, calling her out on her sexually wanton ways.
John dead from a suicidal hanging.  The following is a list of the major
John is the only major character to have grown up outside of the World State.
lasting as long as the Boom.  Men like Ford or Mond seemed to many to have
later tells himself off for being like this towards Lenina, and seems to be
lecturer at the College of Emotional Engineering, Helmholtz is a prime example
left behind.  A group of Indians found her and brought her to their village.
Lenina, a hatchery worker, is socially accepted and comfortable with her place
Lenina Crowne’s friend (they have the same last name because only about ten
life continues—albeit under constant surveillance by the World State.  Small
life.  Hundreds of gawking sightseers, intrigued by John's violent behavior,
Linda could not get an abortion on the Reservation, and she was too ashamed to
Linda's death prompts John to try to force humanity from the workers by
list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century.  Brave New
literature in his safe, including Shakespeare and religious writings.  The name
living in Malpais since she came on a trip and became separated from her group,
London News, G. K. Chesterton explained that Huxley was revolting against the
London where he finds his hermit life interrupted from mourning his mother by
lovers, he is a perfectly conventional Alpha male, casually discussing Lenina’s
Ludwig Mond, at whose factory Huxley worked for a time, which helped to inspire
maintained good health and youthfulness their whole life.  Death isn't feared;
makes her a social outcast.  She is desperate to return to the World State and
manual from his mother's job, which he called a "beastly, beastly book," and a
Marquesas Islands, are reserved for citizens of the World State who do not wish
massacre at the British Museum.  Realising that they could not force people to
members) and designed to fulfill predetermined positions within the social and
members of the same class, citizens participate in mock religious services
"Mond" is similar to the French word "monde", which means “world”, and Mond is
Mond, the Resident World Controller for Western Europe.  Bernard (who breaks
monumental critique of capitalist society.  Unlike his famous namesake,
morning, frenzied at the prospect of seeing the savage perform again, they find
most of her life on an isolated island, and the only people she ever knew were
most people.  Accordingly, many of the novel's characters are named after
mother had taught him to read, although he only had two books: a scientific
much a threat to force freethinkers to reform and rejoin society as it is a
much of its character.  Not only was Huxley outraged by the culture of youth,
native ceremony.  The village folk, whose culture resembles the contemporary
native to us; it went with a buoyant, not to say blatant optimism, which is not
Natural reproduction has been done away with and children are created,
new bitterness, and a new bewilderment, ran through all social life, and was
no competition within castes; each caste member receives the same food,
not playing "Obstacle Golf," or not in bed with a friend, one is forfeiting
novels of the time, Huxley sought to provide a frightening vision of the
novel, which became Brave New World.  Unlike the most popular optimist utopian
of her clothes, taking in the smells.  He then sees her "sleeping" and stares
of his caste, but feels that his work is empty and meaningless and would like
of islands off the coast of New Guinea.  Toward the end of the novel, a
of society, since these people are deliberately limited in their cognitive and
often finds Bernard’s boastfulness and cowardice tedious.  Lenina Crowne – A
of the catastrophe.  The works of H. G. Wells and George Bernard Shaw on the
of the Greek alphabet: alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon, respectively.
of the Gregorian calendar).  Very little is revealed of the Nine Years' War,
of their desires, thus rendering them easier to control.  All children are
on enjoyable, hangover-free "holidays".  It was developed by the World State to
on the thesis that humanity would solve all economic and social issues.  In the
opened and technologically advanced Brunner and Mond plant, part of Imperial
opinions, particularly the fear of losing individual identity in the fast-paced
optimists.  After the Age of Utopias came what we may call the American Age,
our negligent or negative optimism.  Much more than Victorian righteousness, or
own deeply held beliefs are merely phrases repeated to children while they are
parenthood, and pregnancy are considered too obscene to be mentioned in casual
participated that countered his beliefs, makes one last attempt to escape
people are literally bred to do their jobs and cannot desire another.  There is
peoples of Acoma, Laguna, and Zuni, and the Ramah Navajo, begin by singing, but
people to consume and never to enjoy being alone, so by spending an afternoon
permanently limited to no more than two billion people) and everyone is happy.
permission to move the savages, he finds her suitcase and ruffels through all
person, she finds the aged, toothless natives who mend their clothes rather
pessimism.  For the Slump brought even more disillusionment than the War.  A
philosopher Gottfried Leibniz[4] and satirized in Candide, Ou l'Optimisme by
physical abilities, as well as the scope of their ambitions and the complexity
physicist performing illicit research.  When his work was discovered, he was
play, the need for transcendence, solitude and spiritual communion is addressed
pleasant death.  The Director – The Director administrates the Central London
Plus, Bernard is shorter in stature than the average of his caste—a quality
pornographic; sexual competition and emotional, romantic relationships are
print[vague] of Brave New World states that Huxley was inspired to write the
produced in hatcheries by application of "Bokanovsky's"[1] and other techniques
promises of socialism and a World State were then viewed as the ideas of naive
provide these inner-directed personal experiences within a socially managed
providing social engagement and distraction in the material realm of work or
published a collection of his poetry (The Burning Wheel, 1916) and four
published before 150 AF (2058 AD), and the destruction of the few historical
Pursued by the highest members of society, able to bed any woman he fancies,
"rather be himself." Bernard's differences fuel rumors that he was accidentally
receives a telephone call from the hospital telling him that his mother is
reflected in all literature and art.  It was contemptuous, not only of the old
refuses to attend Bernard's parties.  Society drops Bernard as swiftly as it
reinforces each individual's place in the caste system.  To grow closer with
rendered obsolete because they are no longer needed.  Marriage, natural birth,
reproduce are conditioned to use birth control, even wearing a "Malthusian
reproduction (sex is encouraged from early childhood).  The few women who can
Reservation.  He is an Alpha-minus.  The World State is the primary setting of
return to her familiar world in London, as she misses living in the city and
return to the World State with a baby.  Her World State–conditioned promiscuity
reveals further details of the World State's political geography.  Mond
Rothschild (The Rothschild banking family), Joanna Diesel (Rudolf Diesel), Fifi
satirist.  He was a contributor to Vanity Fair and Vogue magazines, had
"savage reservations", including parts of New Mexico, Samoa, and a small group
Savage.  Ultimately, her values are those of a conventional World State
scientists and top administrators of the world.  Citizens in the World State of
securely contained groups of "savages" are left to their own devices.  These
seems to have an attraction to Lenina, as while Bernard is away, getting the
self-medicating comfort mechanism in the face of stress or discomfort, thereby
sense of loneliness stems from being too gifted, too intelligent, too handsome,
setting and characters from his science fiction novel to express widely held
sex object while the native women regularly beat and ostracized her because of
Shakespeare’s plays, which he can quote with great facility.  Bernard Marx – An
shame.  Spared from reassignment, Bernard makes John the toast of London.
shared by the lower castes, which gives him an inferiority complex.  His work
short-lived.  Linda, decrepit, toothless, and friendless, goes on a permanent
side, torn between risking involvement by helping or escaping the scene.
similar expressions used in domestic works of literature in an attempt to
simultaneously, allowing the hatchery to get full use of the ovary in two
Society is controlled by Alphas and their subordinates, Betas.  Below them, in
society, rather than from a systematic or philosophical criticism of it.  When
solved the social riddle and made capitalism the common good.  But it was not
soma and sing hymns.  The ritual progresses through group hypnosis and climaxes
soma holiday while John, appalled by what he perceives to be an empty society,
so much about.  Bernard wants to take them back to block Thomas from his plan
Stability.  The citizens of the World State use a calendar which takes the year
State, but Helmholtz’s criticisms of the World State are more philosophical and
State is a unified government which administers the entire planet, with a few
struggles with Mond and is thrown out of the office.  After Bernard and
subjects like corporate tyranny and behavioral conditioning) and the works of
successful satirical novels: Crome Yellow (1921), Antic Hay (1923), Those
system of values.  Mustapha Mond – The Resident World Controller of Western
taking soma.  John wants to see the "brave new world" his mother has told him
tear John does not see.  The sight of the woman whom he both adores and blames
Tempest, Act V, Scene I: This line itself is ironic; Miranda was raised for
than throw them away repugnant, and the situation is made worse when she
the basis of futurology.  Huxley answered this book with a reassessment in an
The conditioning system eliminates the need for professional competitiveness;
The consummate outsider, he has spent his life alienated from his village on
the developed world.  The political, cultural, economic and sociological
their ship.  Huxley employs the same irony when the "savage" John refers to
the morals behind the existing society and then John is told the "experiment"
the more bitter memories of civilization.  To atone, John brutally whips
the New Mexico Savage Reservation, and he finds himself similarly unable to fit
the novel), Helmholtz Watson (Hermann von Helmholtz; John B. Watson), Henry
the One World State and began a peaceful campaign of change.  This campaign
the planet, and caused massive physical damage.  It is repeatedly stated that
the point of the story being told) up to 96 children and one ovary to produce
the point where he starts to use violence to send them away.  John's grief
the production of such specialized children bolsters the efficiency and harmony
There was a fear of Americanization in Europe.  Thus seeing America firsthand,
the ritual quickly becomes a passion play where a village boy is whipped to
the World State as wonderful and introduces Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx.
the World State.  Bernard’s surname recalls Karl Marx, the nineteenth-century
the World State constitute a eusocial consumer society whose individuals are
they are conditioned to — they turn on each other, in a frenzy of beating and
this time, Huxley had already established himself as a writer and social
Thomas, the Director of the Hatchery and Conditioning Centre who, in front of
though, and he especially is interested in Othello, Romeo and Juliet, and
thousand last names are in use in the World State).  Fanny’s role is mainly to
thousands of children.  To further increase the birthrate of Gammas, Deltas and
threatened, Bernard can be petty and cruel.  Helmholtz Watson – An Alpha
through a process of artificial insemination.  They are then grown to 'birth'
throwing their soma rations out a window.  The ensuing riot brings the police,
to an island because of some scientific experiments that were deemed
to everyone else" is repeated often, and the idea of a "family" is considered
to exile Bernard to Iceland.  But he is secretly vulnerable because he fathered
to live in, or do not fit into the normal society.  The two billion citizens of
to reassign Bernard to Iceland as punishment for his asocial beliefs.  Bernard
to soma.  When she returned she was treated to a series of soma baths and a
to temper their praises with disparaging remarks.  The novel opens in London in
to the hatchery line to produce the five classes or castes named after letters
tourist fashion, Bernard and Lenina watch what at first appears to be a quaint
to use his writing abilities for something more meaningful.  He and Bernard are
unbridled emotion drives the crowd wild with excitement, and — handling it as
unconsciousness.  Soon after, the couple encounters Linda, a woman who has been
uneconomical.  Subsequently, these areas are left as reservations, and local
unpleasant climates are not "civilised" by the government, as it would be
unsurprisingly received nearly universal criticism from contemporary critics,
upheavals of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the First World War (1914–1918)
upper hand, defends himself by presenting the Director with his long-lost lover
Utopia (1905) and Men Like Gods (1923).[5] Wells' hopeful vision of the
vaccination worker at the Central London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre.  She
value consumption with such platitudes as "ending is better than mending,"
village, although he has watched them and even has had some religious
voice the conventional values of her caste and society.  Specifically, she
Voltaire (1759).  Huxley wrote Brave New World in 1931 while he was living in
Warden is the talkative chief administrator for the New Mexico Savage
warns Lenina that she should have more men in her life because it looks bad to
was spurred to write Brave New World with America in mind.  The "feelies" are
were resonating throughout the world as a whole and the individual lives of
what he sees as a "brave new world." Translations of the title often allude to
when his mother succumbs to soma and dies.  He is extremely annoyed by the
When she sees other people for the first time, she is understandably overcome
which makes her attractive to the reader.  For example, she defies her
While visiting the New Mexico Savage Reservation, she became pregnant with the
Whilst Lenina is in the bathroom, humiliated and putting her clothes on, John
who quells the riot by filling the room with soma.  Bernard and Helmholtz
why his society meets the emotional needs of its citizens.  Courting disaster,
widely recognized, influential and in many cases contemporary people, for
widespread resistance, including large-scale riots at Golders Green and a
will continue and he will not be sent to an island.  John meets with Bernard
will inspire his writing, but Bernard simply does not want to leave London; he
with excitement, and utters, among other praise, the famous line above.
with sleep-teaching has led him to realize that what others believe to be their
with the ubiquitous availability and universally endorsed consumption of the
world monuments that had survived the Nine Years' War.  By the time the novel
world of the future.  An early trip to the United States gave Brave New World
World's ironic title derives from Miranda's speech in William Shakespeare's The
World State, governed by ten World Controllers, headquartered in various key
World was inspired by the utopian novels of H.G.  Wells, including A Modern
worldwide economic crisis.  To deal with the two catastrophes of the Nine
year in which the Model T automobile was produced by the Ford Motor Company.
years, they have been treated as outsiders: the native men treated Linda like a
years' time.  People of these castes make up the majority of human society, and
Years' War and the Great Economic Collapse, the new world leaders tried to
young boys that enter the ward to be conditioned about death and annoy John to
