with the ubiquitous availability and universally endorsed consumption of the
with sleep-teaching has led him to realize that what others believe to be their
with and children are created, 'decanted' and raised in Hatcheries and
why his society meets the emotional needs of its citizens.  Courting disaster,
while fetuses chosen to become members of the lower castes ('Beta', 'Gamma',
value consumption with such platitudes as "ending is better than mending,"
to everyone else" is repeated often, and the idea of a "family" is considered
the World State as wonderful and introduces Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx.
The vast majority of the population is unified under the World State, an
these people are deliberately limited in their cognitive and physical
the hypnopaedic process, which provides each child with caste-appropriate
The conditioning system eliminates the need for professional competitiveness;
the Bokanovsky process which enables a single egg to spawn (at the point of the
such specialized children bolsters the efficiency and harmony of society, since
subconscious messages to mold the child's lifelong self-image and social
story being told) up to 96 children and one ovary to produce thousands of
State.  Fetuses chosen to become members of the highest caste, 'Alpha', are
soma and sing hymns.  The ritual progresses through group hypnosis and climaxes
shared by the lower castes, which gives him an inferiority complex.  His work
sense of loneliness stems from being too gifted, too intelligent, too handsome,
self-medicating comfort mechanism in the face of stress or discomfort, thereby
securely contained groups of "savages" are left to their own devices.  These
Savage (Chapters 7–9) Bernard is on holiday at a Savage Reservation.  The
reservation, located in New Mexico, consists of a community named Malpais.
reproduction (sex is encouraged from early childhood).  The few women who can
reproduce are conditioned to use birth control, even wearing a "Malthusian
rendered obsolete because they are no longer needed.  Marriage, natural birth,
reinforces each individual's place in the caste system.  To grow closer with
"rather be himself." Bernard's differences fuel rumors that he was accidentally
providing social engagement and distraction in the material realm of work or
provide these inner-directed personal experiences within a socially managed
producing future adult generations.  To maintain the World State's Command
predetermined positions within the social and economic strata of the World
pornographic; sexual competition and emotional, romantic relationships are
Podsnap's Technique causes all the eggs in the ovary to mature simultaneously,
Plus, Bernard is shorter in stature than the average of his caste—a quality
plentiful (because the population is permanently limited to no more than two
play, the need for transcendence, solitude and spiritual communion is addressed
people to consume and never to enjoy being alone, so by spending an afternoon
people are literally bred to do their jobs and cannot desire another.  There is
parenthood, and pregnancy are considered too obscene to be mentioned in casual
own deeply held beliefs are merely phrases repeated to children while they are
outlook to that chosen by the leaders and their predetermined plans for
on enjoyable, hangover-free "holidays".  It was developed by the World State to
of these castes make up the majority of human society, and the production of
not playing "Obstacle Golf," or not in bed with a friend, one is forfeiting
no competition within castes; each caste member receives the same food,
members of the same class, citizens participate in mock religious services
maintained good health and youthfulness their whole life.  Death isn't feared;
Lenina, a hatchery worker, is socially accepted and comfortable with her place
is the bedrock of economic and social stability for the World State.  Beyond
in society, while Bernard, a psychologist, is an outcast.  Although an Alpha
in an orgy.  In geographic areas nonconducive to easy living and consumption,
i.e., buy a new item instead of fixing the old one, because constant
hypnopaedically inculcated affinity for the State-produced drug, as a
housing, and soma rationing as every other member of that caste.  There is no
he is vocal about being different, once stating he dislikes soma because he'd
further split into 'Plus' and 'Minus' members) and designed to fulfill
From afar, Lenina thinks it will be exciting.
fetus.  Members of lower castes are not unique but are instead created using
eternally peaceful, stable global society in which goods and resources are
eliminates the need for religion or other personal allegiances outside or
Economy for the indefinite future, all citizens are conditioned from birth to
drug soma.  Soma is an allusion to a mythical drink of the same name consumed
developments in reproductive technology and sleep-learning that combine to
desire to change one's caste, largely because a person's sleep-conditioning
desires, thus rendering them easier to control.  All children are educated via
'Delta', 'Epsilon') are subjected to in situ chemical interference to cause
curio in the outside world.  In its first chapters, the novel describes life in
conversation.  Thus, society has developed a new idea of reproductive
contraceptives") as a popular fashion accessory.  The maxim "everyone belongs
context of State-run 'religious' organizations; social clubs.  The
consumption, and near-universal employment to meet society's material demands,
Conditioning Centres, where they are divided into five castes (which are
comprehension.  Spending time alone is considered an outrageous waste of time
College of Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing).  The friendship is
children.  To further increase the birthrate of Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons,
change society. The future society is an embodiment of the ideals that form the
can talk to Bernard about his desire to write poetry.  The Reservation and the
called Solidarity Services, in which twelve people consume large quantities of
by ancient Indo-Aryans.  In the book, soma is a hallucinogen that takes users
Brave New World Revisited (1958) and with his final work, a novel titled Island
Brave New World is a novel written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley and published in
billion people) and everyone is happy.  Natural reproduction has been done away
beyond the World State.  Recreational sex is an integral part of society.
'Beta' is the product of one unique fertilized egg developing into one unique
Bernard's only friend is Helmholtz Watson, an Alpha Plus lecturer at the
belt" (which resembles a cartridge belt and holds "the regulation supply of
basis of futurology. Huxley answered this book with a reassessment in an essay,
based on their similar experiences as misfits, but unlike Bernard, Watson's
asleep.  Still, he recognizes the necessity of such programming as the reason
arrested development in intelligence or physical growth.  Each 'Alpha' or
are beholden of strange customs, including self-mutilation and religion, a mere
appear to be similar to the reservations of land established for the Native
anyone reflecting upon it is reassured by the knowledge that everyone is happy,
and too physically strong.  Helmholtz is drawn to Bernard as a confidant: he
and that society goes on.  Since no one has family, they have no ties to mourn.
and money, and wanting to be an individual is horrifying.  Conditioning trains
American population during the colonisation of North America.  These 'savages'
allowing the hatchery to get full use of the ovary in two years' time.  People
allowed to develop naturally while maturing to term in "decanting bottles",
administered alcohol while incubated, a method used to keep Epsilons short.
According to the World State, sex is a social activity, rather than a means of
acceptance.  In the World State, people typically die at age 60[11] having
abilities, as well as the scope of their ambitions and the complexity of their
(1962).  The novel opens in London in 632 (AD 2540 in the Gregorian Calendar).
1932. Set in London of AD 2540 (632 A.F. in the book), the novel anticipates
