1932. Set in London of AD 2540 (632 A.F. in the book), the novel anticipates
(1962).  The novel opens in London in 632 (AD 2540 in the Gregorian Calendar).
abilities, as well as the scope of their ambitions and the complexity of their
acceptance.  In the World State, people typically die at age 60[11] having
According to the World State, sex is a social activity, rather than a means of
administered alcohol while incubated, a method used to keep Epsilons short.
allowed to develop naturally while maturing to term in "decanting bottles",
allowing the hatchery to get full use of the ovary in two years' time.  People
American population during the colonisation of North America.  These 'savages'
and money, and wanting to be an individual is horrifying.  Conditioning trains
and that society goes on.  Since no one has family, they have no ties to mourn.
and too physically strong.  Helmholtz is drawn to Bernard as a confidant: he
anyone reflecting upon it is reassured by the knowledge that everyone is happy,
appear to be similar to the reservations of land established for the Native
are beholden of strange customs, including self-mutilation and religion, a mere
arrested development in intelligence or physical growth.  Each 'Alpha' or
asleep.  Still, he recognizes the necessity of such programming as the reason
based on their similar experiences as misfits, but unlike Bernard, Watson's
basis of futurology. Huxley answered this book with a reassessment in an essay,
belt" (which resembles a cartridge belt and holds "the regulation supply of
Bernard's only friend is Helmholtz Watson, an Alpha Plus lecturer at the
'Beta' is the product of one unique fertilized egg developing into one unique
beyond the World State.  Recreational sex is an integral part of society.
billion people) and everyone is happy.  Natural reproduction has been done away
Brave New World is a novel written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley and published in
Brave New World Revisited (1958) and with his final work, a novel titled Island
by ancient Indo-Aryans.  In the book, soma is a hallucinogen that takes users
called Solidarity Services, in which twelve people consume large quantities of
can talk to Bernard about his desire to write poetry.  The Reservation and the
change society. The future society is an embodiment of the ideals that form the
children.  To further increase the birthrate of Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons,
College of Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing).  The friendship is
comprehension.  Spending time alone is considered an outrageous waste of time
Conditioning Centres, where they are divided into five castes (which are
consumption, and near-universal employment to meet society's material demands,
context of State-run 'religious' organizations; social clubs.  The
contraceptives") as a popular fashion accessory.  The maxim "everyone belongs
conversation.  Thus, society has developed a new idea of reproductive
curio in the outside world.  In its first chapters, the novel describes life in
'Delta', 'Epsilon') are subjected to in situ chemical interference to cause
desires, thus rendering them easier to control.  All children are educated via
desire to change one's caste, largely because a person's sleep-conditioning
developments in reproductive technology and sleep-learning that combine to
drug soma.  Soma is an allusion to a mythical drink of the same name consumed
Economy for the indefinite future, all citizens are conditioned from birth to
eliminates the need for religion or other personal allegiances outside or
eternally peaceful, stable global society in which goods and resources are
fetus.  Members of lower castes are not unique but are instead created using
From afar, Lenina thinks it will be exciting.
further split into 'Plus' and 'Minus' members) and designed to fulfill
he is vocal about being different, once stating he dislikes soma because he'd
housing, and soma rationing as every other member of that caste.  There is no
hypnopaedically inculcated affinity for the State-produced drug, as a
i.e., buy a new item instead of fixing the old one, because constant
in an orgy.  In geographic areas nonconducive to easy living and consumption,
in society, while Bernard, a psychologist, is an outcast.  Although an Alpha
is the bedrock of economic and social stability for the World State.  Beyond
Lenina, a hatchery worker, is socially accepted and comfortable with her place
maintained good health and youthfulness their whole life.  Death isn't feared;
members of the same class, citizens participate in mock religious services
no competition within castes; each caste member receives the same food,
not playing "Obstacle Golf," or not in bed with a friend, one is forfeiting
of these castes make up the majority of human society, and the production of
on enjoyable, hangover-free "holidays".  It was developed by the World State to
outlook to that chosen by the leaders and their predetermined plans for
own deeply held beliefs are merely phrases repeated to children while they are
parenthood, and pregnancy are considered too obscene to be mentioned in casual
people are literally bred to do their jobs and cannot desire another.  There is
people to consume and never to enjoy being alone, so by spending an afternoon
play, the need for transcendence, solitude and spiritual communion is addressed
plentiful (because the population is permanently limited to no more than two
Plus, Bernard is shorter in stature than the average of his caste—a quality
Podsnap's Technique causes all the eggs in the ovary to mature simultaneously,
pornographic; sexual competition and emotional, romantic relationships are
predetermined positions within the social and economic strata of the World
producing future adult generations.  To maintain the World State's Command
provide these inner-directed personal experiences within a socially managed
providing social engagement and distraction in the material realm of work or
"rather be himself." Bernard's differences fuel rumors that he was accidentally
reinforces each individual's place in the caste system.  To grow closer with
rendered obsolete because they are no longer needed.  Marriage, natural birth,
reproduce are conditioned to use birth control, even wearing a "Malthusian
reproduction (sex is encouraged from early childhood).  The few women who can
reservation, located in New Mexico, consists of a community named Malpais.
Savage (Chapters 7–9) Bernard is on holiday at a Savage Reservation.  The
securely contained groups of "savages" are left to their own devices.  These
self-medicating comfort mechanism in the face of stress or discomfort, thereby
sense of loneliness stems from being too gifted, too intelligent, too handsome,
shared by the lower castes, which gives him an inferiority complex.  His work
soma and sing hymns.  The ritual progresses through group hypnosis and climaxes
State.  Fetuses chosen to become members of the highest caste, 'Alpha', are
story being told) up to 96 children and one ovary to produce thousands of
subconscious messages to mold the child's lifelong self-image and social
such specialized children bolsters the efficiency and harmony of society, since
the Bokanovsky process which enables a single egg to spawn (at the point of the
The conditioning system eliminates the need for professional competitiveness;
the hypnopaedic process, which provides each child with caste-appropriate
these people are deliberately limited in their cognitive and physical
The vast majority of the population is unified under the World State, an
the World State as wonderful and introduces Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx.
to everyone else" is repeated often, and the idea of a "family" is considered
value consumption with such platitudes as "ending is better than mending,"
while fetuses chosen to become members of the lower castes ('Beta', 'Gamma',
why his society meets the emotional needs of its citizens.  Courting disaster,
with and children are created, 'decanted' and raised in Hatcheries and
with sleep-teaching has led him to realize that what others believe to be their
with the ubiquitous availability and universally endorsed consumption of the
