According to the World State, sex is a social activity, rather than a means of reproduction (sex is encouraged from early childhood).
All children are educated via the hypnopaedic process, which provides each child with caste-appropriate subconscious messages to mold the child's lifelong self-image and social outlook to that chosen by the leaders and their predetermined plans for producing future adult generations.
Although an Alpha Plus, Bernard is shorter in stature than the average of his caste—a quality shared by the lower castes, which gives him an inferiority complex.
Bernard is on holiday at a Savage Reservation.
Bernard's only friend is Helmholtz Watson, an Alpha Plus lecturer at the College of Emotional Engineering (Department of Writing).
Beyond providing social engagement and distraction in the material realm of work or play, the need for transcendence, solitude and spiritual communion is addressed with the ubiquitous availability and universally endorsed consumption of the drug soma.
Brave New World is a novel written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley and published in 1932.
Conditioning trains people to consume and never to enjoy being alone, so by spending an afternoon not playing "Obstacle Golf," or not in bed with a friend, one is forfeiting acceptance.
Courting disaster, he is vocal about being different, once stating he dislikes soma because he'd "rather be himself." Bernard's differences fuel rumors that he was accidentally administered alcohol while incubated, a method used to keep Epsilons short.
Death isn't feared; anyone reflecting upon it is reassured by the knowledge that everyone is happy, and that society goes on.
Each 'Alpha' or 'Beta' is the product of one unique fertilized egg developing into one unique fetus.
Fetuses chosen to become members of the highest caste, 'Alpha', are allowed to develop naturally while maturing to term in "decanting bottles", while fetuses chosen to become members of the lower castes ('Beta', 'Gamma', 'Delta', 'Epsilon') are subjected to in situ chemical interference to cause arrested development in intelligence or physical growth.
From afar, Lenina thinks it will be exciting.
Helmholtz is drawn to Bernard as a confidant: he can talk to Bernard about his desire to write poetry.
His work with sleep-teaching has led him to realize that what others believe to be their own deeply held beliefs are merely phrases repeated to children while they are asleep.
Huxley answered this book with a reassessment in an essay, Brave New World Revisited (1958) and with his final work, a novel titled Island (1962).
In geographic areas nonconducive to easy living and consumption, securely contained groups of "savages" are left to their own devices.
In its first chapters, the novel describes life in the World State as wonderful and introduces Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx.
In the World State, people typically die at age 60[11] having maintained good health and youthfulness their whole life.
In the book, soma is a hallucinogen that takes users on enjoyable, hangover-free "holidays".
It was developed by the World State to provide these inner-directed personal experiences within a socially managed context of State-run 'religious' organizations; social clubs.
Lenina, a hatchery worker, is socially accepted and comfortable with her place in society, while Bernard, a psychologist, is an outcast.
Marriage, natural birth, parenthood, and pregnancy are considered too obscene to be mentioned in casual conversation.
Members of lower castes are not unique but are instead created using the Bokanovsky process which enables a single egg to spawn (at the point of the story being told) up to 96 children and one ovary to produce thousands of children.
Natural reproduction has been done away with and children are created, 'decanted' and raised in Hatcheries and Conditioning Centres, where they are divided into five castes (which are further split into 'Plus' and 'Minus' members) and designed to fulfill predetermined positions within the social and economic strata of the World State.
People of these castes make up the majority of human society, and the production of such specialized children bolsters the efficiency and harmony of society, since these people are deliberately limited in their cognitive and physical abilities, as well as the scope of their ambitions and the complexity of their desires, thus rendering them easier to control.
Recreational sex is an integral part of society.
Set in London of AD 2540 (632 A.F. in the book), the novel anticipates developments in reproductive technology and sleep-learning that combine to change society.
Since no one has family, they have no ties to mourn.
Soma is an allusion to a mythical drink of the same name consumed by ancient Indo-Aryans.
Spending time alone is considered an outrageous waste of time and money, and wanting to be an individual is horrifying.
Still, he recognizes the necessity of such programming as the reason why his society meets the emotional needs of its citizens.
The conditioning system eliminates the need for professional competitiveness; people are literally bred to do their jobs and cannot desire another.
The few women who can reproduce are conditioned to use birth control, even wearing a "Malthusian belt" (which resembles a cartridge belt and holds "the regulation supply of contraceptives") as a popular fashion accessory.
The friendship is based on their similar experiences as misfits, but unlike Bernard, Watson's sense of loneliness stems from being too gifted, too intelligent, too handsome, and too physically strong.
The future society is an embodiment of the ideals that form the basis of futurology.
The hypnopaedically inculcated affinity for the State-produced drug, as a self-medicating comfort mechanism in the face of stress or discomfort, thereby eliminates the need for religion or other personal allegiances outside or beyond the World State.
The maxim "everyone belongs to everyone else" is repeated often, and the idea of a "family" is considered pornographic; sexual competition and emotional, romantic relationships are rendered obsolete because they are no longer needed.
The novel opens in London in 632 (AD 2540 in the Gregorian Calendar).
The reservation, located in New Mexico, consists of a community named Malpais.
The ritual progresses through group hypnosis and climaxes in an orgy.
The vast majority of the population is unified under the World State, an eternally peaceful, stable global society in which goods and resources are plentiful (because the population is permanently limited to no more than two billion people) and everyone is happy.
There is no competition within castes; each caste member receives the same food, housing, and soma rationing as every other member of that caste.
There is no desire to change one's caste, largely because a person's sleep-conditioning reinforces each individual's place in the caste system.
These 'savages' are beholden of strange customs, including self-mutilation and religion, a mere curio in the outside world.
These appear to be similar to the reservations of land established for the Native American population during the colonisation of North America.
Thus, society has developed a new idea of reproductive comprehension.
To further increase the birthrate of Gammas, Deltas and Epsilons, Podsnap's Technique causes all the eggs in the ovary to mature simultaneously, allowing the hatchery to get full use of the ovary in two years' time.
To grow closer with members of the same class, citizens participate in mock religious services called Solidarity Services, in which twelve people consume large quantities of soma and sing hymns.
To maintain the World State's Command Economy for the indefinite future, all citizens are conditioned from birth to value consumption with such platitudes as "ending is better than mending," i.e., buy a new item instead of fixing the old one, because constant consumption, and near-universal employment to meet society's material demands, is the bedrock of economic and social stability for the World State.
